<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
* 2. [Anatomy of an ASPNet Core Project](#AnatomyofanASPNetCoreProject)
	* 2.1. [Structure of the Project](#StructureoftheProject)
	* 2.2. [Interacting with the Runtime Environment](#InteractingwiththeRuntimeEnvironment)
		* 2.2.1. [Resolving the Startup Type](#ResolvingtheStartupType)
		* 2.2.2. [The Hosting Environment](#TheHostingEnvironment)
		* 2.2.3. [Enabling System and Application Services](#EnablingSystemandApplicationServices)
		* 2.2.4. [Configuring System and Application Services](#ConfiguringSystemandApplicationServices)
		* 2.2.5. [Environment-Specific Configuration Methods](#Environment-SpecificConfigurationMethods)
		* 2.2.6. [The ASPNet Pipeline](#TheASPNetPipeline)
* 3. [The Dependency Injection (D.I.)Subsystem](#TheDependencyInjectionD.I.Subsystem)
	* 3.1. [D.I. at a Glance](#D.I.ataGlance)
	* 3.2. [D.I. in ASPNet Core](#D.I.inASPNetCore)
		* 3.2.1. [Registering Types with the DI System](#RegisteringTypeswiththeDISystem)
		* 3.2.2. [Resolving Types Based on Runtime Conditions](#ResolvingTypesBasedonRuntimeConditions)
		* 3.2.3. [Resolving Types on Demand](#ResolvingTypesonDemand)
		* 3.2.4. [Controlling the Lifetime of Objects](#ControllingtheLifetimeofObjects)
	* 3.3. [Integrating with External D.I. Libraries](#IntegratingwithExternalD.I.Libraries)
* 4. [Building a Mini Website](#BuildingaMiniWebsite)
	* 4.1. [Creating a Single Endpoint Website](#CreatingaSingleEndpointWebsite)
	* 4.2. [Accessing Files on the Web Server](#AccessingFilesontheWebServer)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->
##  1. <a name='Introduction'></a>Introduction

- ASPNet Core id the web-oriented application model that works on top the .Net Core platform.
- It has a brand-new runtime environment that supports a Single Application Model: ASPNet MVC
##  2. <a name='AnatomyofanASPNetCoreProject'></a>Anatomy of an ASPNet Core Project

###  2.1. <a name='StructureoftheProject'></a>Structure of the Project
It has three interesting parts:
- `wwwroot` folder: ASPNet Core runtime distinguishes `content root` and `web root` folders.
  - `content root`:
    - The current directory of the project
    - It represents the base path for any file search
    - In production, it is the root folder of deployment 
  - `web root`:
    - The base path for any static file that the app might serve to web clients
    - It is a child folder of `content root`
    - It is completely transparent to client browsers requesting static files.
    - It is names `wwwroot`
- `Program.cs` file:
  - An ASPNet Core application is nothing more than a `console` application (which is soure code is in `Program.cs`). 
  - An ASPNet Core application requires a `host` in which to execute. The `host` is responsible for the application startup and lifetime management.
- `Startup.cs` file:
  - It contains the class designated to configure the request pipeline that handles all requests made to the application.
  - This class contains a couple of methods that the `host` calls back during the initialization:
    - `ConfigureServices`: It adds in the dependency injection mechanism services that the application expects to use.
    - `Configure`: It configurates previously requested services.
  - Both methods are discovered and invoked via [reflection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflective_programming)

###  2.2. <a name='InteractingwiththeRuntimeEnvironment'></a>Interacting with the Runtime Environment

####  2.2.1. <a name='ResolvingtheStartupType'></a>Resolving the Startup Type

####  2.2.2. <a name='TheHostingEnvironment'></a>The Hosting Environment

####  2.2.3. <a name='EnablingSystemandApplicationServices'></a>Enabling System and Application Services

####  2.2.4. <a name='ConfiguringSystemandApplicationServices'></a>Configuring System and Application Services

####  2.2.5. <a name='Environment-SpecificConfigurationMethods'></a>Environment-Specific Configuration Methods

####  2.2.6. <a name='TheASPNetPipeline'></a>The ASPNet Pipeline

##  3. <a name='TheDependencyInjectionD.I.Subsystem'></a>The Dependency Injection (D.I.)Subsystem

###  3.1. <a name='D.I.ataGlance'></a>D.I. at a Glance

- It promotes loose coopling between classes.
- If class `B` depends on class `A`, a tight relationship is unavoidable.
- The core idea of D.I., is to make class `B` dependent **only on an abstraction of the functions** provided by class `A`. i.e., an `interface` which `A` implements.
- So considering the code below:

``` cs
public class B
{
  private classA objA;

  public B()
  {
    objA = new classA();
  }

  public dummy GetDummy(parameters....)
  {
    return objA.getDummy(parameters...);
  }
}
```

- Can be rewritten as follows:
  
``` cs
public class B
{
  private InterfaceToA _objA;

  public B(InterfaceToA objA)
  {
    _objA = objA;
  }

  public dummy GetDummy(parameters....)
  {
    return _objA.getDummy(parameters...);
  }
}
```

- Now any class that implements `InterfaceToA` can work with an instance of class `B`.
- The responsability of creating an instance of `A` abstraction has been moved away from the class `B`.
  - Some other code is now responsible for taking a reference to an interface (an abstraction) and returning a usable instance of a concrete type (a class).
- This helps to write `unit tests` more easily because mocked implementation can be passed at any time to the constructor.
  
###  3.2. <a name='D.I.inASPNetCore'></a>D.I. in ASPNet Core

- To use a D.I. system you shall to **register the types the system must be albe to instantiate for you**
- ASPNet Core D.I. system needs to know about application-specific types

####  3.2.1. <a name='RegisteringTypeswiththeDISystem'></a>Registering Types with the DI System
- The `IServicesColletion` parameter (in the `ConfigureServices` method) is the handle to access all types currently registered tin the D.I. system.
- To register a new type you add the following code:

``` cs
public void ConfigurationServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
  services.AddTransient<InterfaceToA, A>;
}
```

- The `AddTransient` method instructs the D.I. to serve a fresh new instance of the type `A` class everytime an abstraction like the `InterfaceToA` is requested.
  - So, any clas whose instantiation is managed by ASPNet Core can simply declare a parameter of type `InterfaceToA` to have a fresh instance served by the system.
- Controllers and view classes takes advantage of the D.I. system

####  3.2.2. <a name='ResolvingTypesBasedonRuntimeConditions'></a>Resolving Types Based on Runtime Conditions

####  3.2.3. <a name='ResolvingTypesonDemand'></a>Resolving Types on Demand

####  3.2.4. <a name='ControllingtheLifetimeofObjects'></a>Controlling the Lifetime of Objects
- There are three ways to register a type with the D.I. system:
  - `AddTransient`: Every caller receives a freshly created instance of the specified type
  - `AddSingleton`: Açç request receive the same instance of the specified type which was created after application startup.
  - `AddScoped`: Like a singleton except that is scoped to the request lifetime.
- Every abstract type can be mapper to multiple concrete types.
  - BUT, the system uses the last registered concrete type to resolve the dependency.

###  3.3. <a name='IntegratingwithExternalD.I.Libraries'></a>Integrating with External D.I. Libraries
- In ASPNet COore, dependency injection **can only occur via the constructor**, and this is by design.
##  4. <a name='BuildingaMiniWebsite'></a>Building a Mini Website

###  4.1. <a name='CreatingaSingleEndpointWebsite'></a>Creating a Single Endpoint Website

###  4.2. <a name='AccessingFilesontheWebServer'></a>Accessing Files on the Web Server