<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
* 2. [Enabling the MVC Application Model](#EnablingtheMVCApplicationModel)
	* 2.1. [Registering the MVC Service](#RegisteringtheMVCService)
		* 2.1.1. [Adding the MVC service](#AddingtheMVCservice)
		* 2.1.2. [Additional Services Enabled](#AdditionalServicesEnabled)
		* 2.1.3. [Activating the MVC Service](#ActivatingtheMVCService)
	* 2.2. [Enabling Conventional Routing](#EnablingConventionalRouting)
		* 2.2.1. [Adding the Default Route](#AddingtheDefaultRoute)
		* 2.2.2. [When No Routes are Configured](#WhenNoRoutesareConfigured)
		* 2.2.3. [The Routing Service and the Pipeline](#TheRoutingServiceandthePipeline)
* 3. [Configuring the Routing Table](#ConfiguringtheRoutingTable)
	* 3.1. [Anatomy of a Route](#AnatomyofaRoute)
		* 3.1.1. [Defining Custom Rules](#DefiningCustomRules)
	* 3.2. [Order of Routes](#OrderofRoutes)
		* 3.2.1. [Accessing Route Data Programmatically](#AccessingRouteDataProgrammatically)
	* 3.3. [Advanced Aspects of Routing](#AdvancedAspectsofRouting)
* 4. [Map of ASPNET MVC Machinery](#MapofASPNETMVCMachinery)
	* 4.1. [The Action Invoker](#TheActionInvoker)
	* 4.2. [Processing Action Results](#ProcessingActionResults)
	* 4.3. [Action Filters](#ActionFilters)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='Introduction'></a>Introduction
This chapter explains how to get your MVC infrastructure (i.e. pipeline and handler responsible for the actual processing of any incoming requests) up and running:
- How to enable the MVC application model
- Register the MVC Service
- Enable and COnfiguring Routing
- How Routing fits into the workflow of an ASP.NET MVC request.

In a ASPNET MVC application model, the URL of a incoming request is resolved to a pair of `controller`/`action` items, where:
- `controller` item:  identifies a `class` name.
- `action` item: identifies a `method` on the `controller class`.
So, the processing of the request is matter of executing the given `action` method of a given `controller` class.

##  2. <a name='EnablingtheMVCApplicationModel'></a>Enabling the MVC Application Model
- ASPNET Core is a fairly generic web framework that allows:
  - Request to be handled through a centralized endpoint - the terminating middleware. Or,
  - a more sophisticated endpoint based on controller actions.
###  2.1. <a name='RegisteringtheMVCService'></a>Registering the MVC Service

The `MvcRouteHandler` service is the engine responsible for resolving the URL to an MVC route, invoking the selected `controller` method, and processing the results of the `action`.

####  2.1.1. <a name='AddingtheMVCservice'></a>Adding the MVC service

- To add the MVC route handler to the ASPNET host, Add the service in the `ConfigureServices` method:

``` cs
public void ConfigureServices( IServiceCollection services )
{
	services.AddMvc();
}
```

- The `AddMvc` has two overloads:
  - Parameterless, which accepts all default settings for the MVC services.
  - With options specified though an instance of the MVCOptions class.

####  2.1.2. <a name='AdditionalServicesEnabled'></a>Additional Services Enabled

- The `services.AddMvc()` method is an umbrella method where another services can be initialized and added to the pipeline. Here is a list of some of them:
  - `MVC Core`: Set of core services of the MVC application model including routing and controllers
  - `Views`: Service to process action results as HTML views.
  - `JSON Formatters`: Service to process action results as JSON streams.
  - An example is given below:

``` cs
public void ConfigureServices( IServiceCollection services )
{
	var builder = services.AddMvcCore(); // MVC Core
	builder.AddViews(); // Views
	builder.AddJsonFormatters(); // JSON Formatters
}
```

- When exposing a WEBAPI, you can use: `API Explorer`, `Formatter Mappings` and `CORS`.


####  2.1.3. <a name='ActivatingtheMVCService'></a>Activating the MVC Service

- Call the `UseMvc` method to configure the ASP.NET Core pipeline to support the MVC application model.

``` cs
public void ConfigureServices( IServiceCollection services )
{
	var builder = services.AddMvcCore(); // MVC Core
	builder.AddViews(); // Views
	builder.AddJsonFormatters(); // JSON Formatters
}
```

###  2.2. <a name='EnablingConventionalRouting'></a>Enabling Conventional Routing

- On the other hand, at this point everything around tha MVC application model is completely set up except `conventional routing`.
- A `route` is a URL template that the application can recognize and process.
  - A `route` is ultimately mapped to a pair of `controller` and `action` name.
- So, `conventional routing` consist a bunch of pattern rules that identify all valid URLs the application intend to process.

####  2.2.1. <a name='AddingtheDefaultRoute'></a>Adding the Default Route
- If there is no any concerns about routes go for `Default Route`
  - It is the simplest and easiest method.

``` cs
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app)
{
	app.UseMvcWithDefaultRoute();
}
```

- The implementation above is equivalente to: 

``` cs
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{           
    app.UseMvc( routes =>
    {
        routes.MapRoute(
            name: "default",
            template: "{controller = Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}"
        );
    });
}
```

Where:
- Any requested URL will be parsed in segments:
  - *first segment* (after the server name): is matched to a route parameter named `controller`
  - *second segment*: is matched to a route parameter named `action`
  - *third segment* (if any): is matched to an optional (`?` symbol) route parameter named `id`
- The URL `Product/List` will be matched to a controller namd of `Product` and an action method of `List`
  - If the URL contains less than two segments, defaults values apply, i.e. `Home` and `Index`
- Route parameters named `controller` and `action` have a key role in the overall processing of an incoming request because **they point to the code that will actually produce the response**.
  - Any request successfully mapped to a route will be processed by executing a method on a controller class.
    - The route parameter named `controller` identifies the controller class.
    - The route parameter named `action` identifies the method to invoke.


####  2.2.2. <a name='WhenNoRoutesareConfigured'></a>When No Routes are Configured

####  2.2.3. <a name='TheRoutingServiceandthePipeline'></a>The Routing Service and the Pipeline


##  3. <a name='ConfiguringtheRoutingTable'></a>Configuring the Routing Table

###  3.1. <a name='AnatomyofaRoute'></a>Anatomy of a Route

####  3.1.1. <a name='DefiningCustomRules'></a>Defining Custom Rules

###  3.2. <a name='OrderofRoutes'></a>Order of Routes

####  3.2.1. <a name='AccessingRouteDataProgrammatically'></a>Accessing Route Data Programmatically

###  3.3. <a name='AdvancedAspectsofRouting'></a>Advanced Aspects of Routing

##  4. <a name='MapofASPNETMVCMachinery'></a>Map of ASPNET MVC Machinery

###  4.1. <a name='TheActionInvoker'></a>The Action Invoker

###  4.2. <a name='ProcessingActionResults'></a>Processing Action Results

###  4.3. <a name='ActionFilters'></a>Action Filters