<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [The pillars and values of Scrum](#ThepillarsandvaluesofScrum)
	* 1.1. [Introduction: Scrum 101](#Introduction:Scrum101)
	* 1.2. [The three pillars of Scrum](#ThethreepillarsofScrum)
	* 1.3. [The five values of Scrum](#ThefivevaluesofScrum)
	* 1.4. [Reading The Scrum Guide](#ReadingTheScrumGuide)
* 2. [Scrum roles and responsibilities](#Scrumrolesandresponsibilities)
	* 2.1. [Essential Scrum roles](#EssentialScrumroles)
	* 2.2. [Traits of an effective Scrum Master](#TraitsofaneffectiveScrumMaster)
	* 2.3. [Pete: What makes an effective Scrum Master](#Pete:WhatmakesaneffectiveScrumMaster)
	* 2.4. [Traits of an effective Product Owner](#TraitsofaneffectiveProductOwner)
	* 2.5. [Traits of an effective Development Team](#TraitsofaneffectiveDevelopmentTeam)
	* 2.6. [Reading Understanding Scrum Team roles](#ReadingUnderstandingScrumTeamroles)
	* 2.7. [Reading Characteristics of a great Scrum Team](#ReadingCharacteristicsofagreatScrumTeam)
* 3. [Review: Scrum 101](#Review:Scrum101)
	* 3.1. [Wrap-up](#Wrap-up)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->



##  1. <a name='ThepillarsandvaluesofScrum'></a>The pillars and values of Scrum

###  1.1. <a name='Introduction:Scrum101'></a>Introduction: Scrum 101

Hi there, earlier we gave you an overview of the Agile mindset, which is based on the Agile Manifesto's four values and 12 principles. We covered the Agile values, principles, and a set of Agile methodologies that we can use to manage projects in an Agile way. 
Now, we're going to have a deep discussion about Scrum, the most commonly-used Agile framework. The Scrum Guide, which contains everything you need to know about Scrum, is a main source of truth for Scrum Teams and is available for free at Scrumguides.org. We've also linked to it in the course resources. I'll often refer back to what's said in the definitive Scrum Guide, so please bookmark that site for future reference. 

Scrum is so prevalent that people sometimes use the term Scrum and Agile interchangeably. 
- Agile is the foundational philosophy and mindset, while 
- Scrum is a framework that materializes or brings that philosophy to life. In fact, Scrum came before the Agile Manifesto and served as an inspiration for the entire Agile philosophy. For the rest of this course, we'll focus on Scrum, which is the most popular project management framework. 

We also mentioned other frameworks in the last module, which you're welcome to revisit any time, as needed. 

We're going to start by exploring the theory behind Scrum, which has **three pillars**, and we'll explore the **five Scrum values**. I'll tell you why it's important for teams to have a set mission that they follow. 
I'll also introduce the roles within a Scrum Team: the Product Owner, Scrum Master, and the Development Team. 
Lastly, I'm going to introduce all of these concepts to you using our new Office Green project. You probably remember Office Green as a company that handles plants and greenery for office buildings. Well, Office Green has a new project in the works called *Virtual Verde*, but we'll get into that later. You also learned that in Scrum projects, project managers typically take on the Scrum Master role. So in this scenario, you'll be the Scrum Master, working with the Scrum Team, and you'll learn about Scrum artifacts, events, and what those entail. We're going to start with the three pillars of Scrum theory. Meet you in the next video.

###  1.2. <a name='ThethreepillarsofScrum'></a>The three pillars of Scrum

Just as Agile has core values that teams must adhere to, Scrum has its own set of pillars that act as a foundation for Scrum Teams. I'll go through the three pillars of Scrum in this video.

Let's start by looking at the theory behind Scrum so that we could learn the various methods and understand why they're effective. 
- what is Scrum? The Scrum Guide defines Scrum as a framework for developing, delivering, and sustaining complex products. 
  - That means a team can use Scrum to create valuable products for their users, even when the environment or industry they're in is hard to predict and there are many risks. 
- Scrum uses an **iterative and incremental approach**. Iterative refers to the fact that project processes are repeated. We discussed this a bit in the last module, but as a reminder, iterative means that the project works in time boxes or iterations. Incremental refers to the work being divided into smaller chunks that build on each other. The product is built over time through work done during each iteration.
  - Each of these instances of the product is called an increment. Iterations and increments allow us to keep checking in on our progress throughout the life cycle of the project. This helps us become more predictable and manage the uncertainty in our project.
- Scrum is founded on a scientific theory called **empiricism**. This is a fancy word for a simple concept: that **true knowledge comes from actual, lived experience**. The Scrum founders emphasize that we shouldn't try to assume that things will go exactly as planned or try to predict the future in an uncertain world. Instead, if you're using Scrum, you're ensuring that **each decision you make in your project is based on real experience and hard data**. 
  - So each iteration and increment is understood as a mini-experiment where we can learn really valuable things to help improve the project.
  
- Empiricism is built on three foundational pillars. Those pillars are **transparency, inspection, and adaptation**, and they're also the three pillars of Scrum.
  - transparency. Transparency means that we make **the most significant aspects of our work visible to those responsible for the outcome**. Everyone must be transparent. This includes everyone from Scrum Team members to senior sponsors, and even our users. It's easier to be transparent with a small team. 
    - And luckily, Scrum Teams are deliberately small—ranging between three and nine people. This way, you avoid mixed signals, breakdowns of communication, and unnecessary complications. Transparency inside a Scrum Team is critical to the team's productivity and the project's completion.
    - In terms of transparency outside of the team, being transparent with all stakeholders, including customers, sponsors, and management builds a level of trust between everyone involved. Transparency also encourages more collaboration and fewer mistakes.
  - inspection. Inspection refers to conducting timely checks towards the outcome of a Sprint goal to detect undesirable variances. This means that we're always checking in on our progress and deliverables so that we can detect any undesirable changes. When teams work in an Agile way, a stakeholder review of their work is a necessary opportunity for growth and progress. 
    - The more inspections that take place, the more improvement a team experiences in their work. There's real value to be gained from deliberate inspection while you have a chance to change and improve.
    - Inspection also propels our next pillar: adaptation. 
  - Adaptation means that we're continuously searching for ways to **adjust our project, product, or processes to minimize any further deviation or issues**. In Scrum, and in Agile as a whole, for that matter, we embrace change so that we are always improving. So when we adapt, we change aspects that do not work or could be better.

Transparency and inspection **gives Scrum Teams the information and opportunity they need to identify improvements or changes**. 
Adaptation includes **immediate fixes to problems**, it may also be about implementing a change so future projects don't repeat past mistakes.


###  1.3. <a name='ThefivevaluesofScrum'></a>The five values of Scrum


Having a value system as a team is great because you'll expect each other to act in a way that is aligned with these values. So let's get into it.

Scrum Teams work and behave according to five core values: **commitment, courage, focus, openness, and respect**:
- commitment. This means p**ersonally committing to achieving the goals of the Scrum Team**. 
  - For example, maybe a member of the team is struggling to overcome something that is blocking their work from getting done, like a new technology that is proving difficult to learn. In this case, another team member who is familiar with the technology can put their own work aside to step in and help their teammate learn the technology. 
- courage. Scrum Team members must have the courage **to do the right thing and work on tough problems**. 
  - In any project, there's a body of work that needs to get done. Some of the work will be relatively simple, and some will be complex with many risks. 
  - An example of courage includes taking on a hard task that you know will require you to learn a new skill. Courage could mean telling your team that you're stuck and you need help. It might also mean calling out a negative behavior within the team to openly discuss and address the behavior. Demonstrating courage when responding to challenging situations can strengthen the team's resilience. 
- Third, there's focus. This refers to everyone **focusing on the necessary work within the Sprint and the overall goals of the Scrum Team**. 
  - For example, a team member is working on a solution that involves a new technology and is very difficult. Allowing that team member to focus on that difficult yet necessary part of the solution is key, and their teammates help get it across the finish line. They know that focusing on the solution will speed up the team's progress in the long run, so it's worth the investment now.
  - The Scrum Master, a role **often assumed by the project manager**, helps the team to focus on the Sprint and product goals by facilitating their activities and events on a daily basis. 
- openness. For Scrum to work, the team and its stakeholders agree **to be open about all the work and the various challenges that come with performing the work**. Openness is essential to a productive Scrum Team. In order to gather data, team members must be willing to share their observations and experiences. If a team member runs into an issue within the project that they aren't sure how to fix, they should share it with the team. Another team member may have a very quick and easy solution, or at least valuable insight into some options on how to handle their issue.
- respect. Team members should **respect the opinions, skills, and independence of their teammates**. 
  - When you respect the independence and contributions of others and feel respected yourself, you're more likely to listen and hear any feedback. This is crucial in making the product or business as successful as possible.

In order for a team to bring the three pillars of Scrum to life, they must act in accordance with the five Scrum values. 
- For example, if a team aims to achieve transparency between themselves and their stakeholders, they need to be open to sharing information while still having the focus to share the most relevant information. 
- For a team to effectively inspect their work and their processes, they must have courage to offer difficult feedback, and have the mutual respect to really listen to what others have to say.
- For a team to adapt to their inspection results, they must have the courage to make changes and learn from them. They must also be committed to the goals of the team and follow through on the adaptation. 

###  1.4. <a name='ReadingTheScrumGuide'></a>Reading The Scrum Guide

#### The Scrum Guide
In the last video, you learned that the Scrum Guide acts as the main source of truth for Scrum teams and contains everything you need to know about Scrum. You also learned that Scrum is a framework within the foundational project management philosophy called Agile. The Scrum Guide defines Scrum as “A framework within which people can address complex adaptive problems, while productively and creatively delivering products of the highest possible value.” This reading will review the Scrum pillars and values and then provide links to the Scrum Guide and further reading about Scrum. 

#### Pillars and values 
To recap, every person on a Scrum team subscribes to the three pillars and the five values of Scrum. 

The three pillars of Scrum are: 

1. Transparency 
2. Inspection
3. Adaptation 

The five values of Scrum are: 
1. Courage 
2. Commitment 
3. Focus
4. Openness 
5. Respect 

In order for a team to succeed, it is incredibly important that every team member follow these core pillars and values.

Scrum only has a few rules and practices that are easy to follow. It is also easy to understand. However, Scrum can be challenging to master because mastery depends on being able to embody, live, and promote the pillars and values of Scrum. 

##  2. <a name='Scrumrolesandresponsibilities'></a>Scrum roles and responsibilities

###  2.1. <a name='EssentialScrumroles'></a>Essential Scrum roles

Let's start by discussing the team's product vision and mission. Remember, Scrum is an Agile methodology, so it embodies the values and principles of Agile.

One of the Agile principles states: Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done. The best way to motivate individuals is to give them a mission and product vision that they really care about, so they can feel good about working towards it. 

- **mission** is a short statement that stays constant for your team throughout the process and gives them something to work toward.
- **product vision**: making it clear **what outcomes the team is responsible for and where your team's boundaries are**.

**A mission tells me why we're doing the work. A product vision helps me imagine what the work will be like when we're done.**

Let's think about the mission and product vision with Office Green's new Virtual Verde project. Virtual Verde delivers plants to people's home offices. Office Green's Business Development Department came up with a mission for the project and a product vision: 
- Mision: Virtual Verde improves users' health and happiness by bringing their at-home workspace to life. 
- product vision: Virtual Verde is a living marketplace that transforms the home office.

These two statements are meant to inspire the team to deliver a delightful experience for Virtual Verde's users.

Scrum Team roles: Every Scrum Team consists of three defined roles: 
- a Scrum Master, 
- a Product Owner, 
- and the Development Team. 

These roles work together to achieve the team's objectives and realize the mission and vision. 

- The Product Owner is responsible for what a team builds. They also must ensure everyone understands the why. 
  - For example, the Virtual Verde team needs a Product Owner to capture and promote the great ideas coming from the team about the new service, which is delivering plants to people who work from home.
  - The Product Owner's job is to **build the right thing**.

- The Development Team is responsible for how a team will deliver that product. 
  - For example, creating a new website is next on our to-do list so customers can order plants for the home office. The Development Team is building websites, integrating billing systems, and fixing issues. 
  - The Development Team's job is to **build the thing right**. 
- The Scrum Master is responsible for when a team will deliver value to its users. This role is **roughly equivalent to the project manager role in traditional projects**. The Virtual Verde Scrum Master is helping unblock the team from getting things done, such as finding out why a vendor was late or helping the team prioritize issues from users or organizing the demo for the CEO. 
  - The Scrum Master's job is to **build the thing fast**. Although there are clearly defined roles on a Scrum Team, it's important to note that the entire team works together to achieve its goals. 

In other words, although there are specific expectations for each role, the Development Team may still contribute ideas for the "what' and the "when" of a project, while the Product Owner may contribute to discussions on the "how" of the project. 

As a collective, Scrum Teams must exhibit a few specific skills. The Scrum Guide details these skills as follows. 
- Scrum Teams are cross-functional. When a Scrum Team delivers something, it's the accomplishment of the entire team, no matter what function or organization they're in. On your Scrum Team, you may have a software developer, a marketing specialist, a quality assurance, and logistics expert. 
- You may remember our soccer team analogy, when each player comes together to play their position, the end result is you have all you need to get the ball into the goal. Plus, these fresh perspectives add a lot of value to your project and to your users and business.

Scrum Teams are self-organizing. This may sound radically different from other organizations you've worked at before, where your managers dictate your tasks and request frequent updates. 
- But because Scrum Teams rely on those five values—commitment, courage, focus, openness and respect—the Scrum Team is able to work together to deliver amazing results in a more organic and flexible environment.

Although teams are self-organizing, **high-performing Scrum Teams often have a manager who sits outside of the Scrum Team and provides strategic leadership and individual career development without disrupting the self-organizing nature of Scrum**.

In my experience, *if a manager feels compelled to start telling the team what to do and interferes with the self-organizing nature, the benefits of Scrum will begin to collapse.*

###  2.2. <a name='TraitsofaneffectiveScrumMaster'></a>Traits of an effective Scrum Master

In Scrum, the project manager is most likely playing the role of Scrum Master. 
I'll explain some of the differences and similarities between a Scrum Master and a project manager. 
The Scrum Master promotes and supports the Scrum process by helping everyone understand and implement Scrum. This includes its practices, rules, and values.
- they're responsible for helping the team be their very best. They can achieve this by coaching individuals on the team to manage external forces, as well as maximizing the team's internal potential.

For example, let's say that Virtual Verde keeps getting error reports about the shopping cart feature on their new website page. The Scrum Master is there to notice the pattern and help the team find a better solution, rather than just fixing one error at a time. Maybe a special test plan is needed or extra solution reviews for that feature are needed before changes are released.

The Scrum Master's responsibilities include 
- coaching team members on the Agile and Scrum practices, rules, and values and 
- helping to find ways to manage the Product Backlog effectively. 
  - The Product Backlog is the single authoritative source for things that a team works on. It contains all of the product features, product requirements, and activities associated with deliverables to achieve the goal of the project.
- facilitates Scrum events such as Sprint Retrospectives, which happen at the end of every Sprint. The Scrum Master 
- helps the team remove any blockers to their progress, such as missing information or access to training or tools. 
- prevents unhelpful interactions or interruptions coming from outside of the team.

At this point, you may be wondering, how am I going to do all of that? Well, you probably already have many of the traits that Scrum Masters need to execute these tasks. A Scrum Master is required to be organized and supportive as they lead. They're also facilitators, coaches, and great communicators. Let's find out how these traits are helpful in a Scrum Master's role. 
Scrum Masters 
- must have good organizational skills that help them to effectively organize project artifacts and manage Scrum events. 
- must be supportive leaders who focus on the needs of others and the needs of the team before their individual needs. 
  - they're always asking questions like "How can I help?" or "What would help the team go forward on this project?" 
- must facilitate productivity and collaboration. This is a critical skill to ensuring every team member's voice is heard and that their input is addressed. 
- must coach team members on Scrum theory and application. 
  - Coaching is a skill that encourages dialogue and discussion over simply giving the answers directly. 
- must be great communicators, particularly when it comes to stakeholders. 
  - Scrum Masters are experienced in engaging with diverse stakeholders who may have competing perspectives and styles. A Scrum Master who can relate to many different types of people is a powerful and essential teammate to have on a project.

You're probably wondering if the role of a Scrum Master differs from a traditional project manager. The answer is yes, the two roles can be quite different, although th**ey may be played by the same individual and require a similar skill set**.

As their primary responsibility: **the Scrum Master acts as a facilitator and a coach to the Scrum Team, and they need to make sure that they have enough time in the day to do this job first and foremost**. 

If the company requires the management of many additional project management activities, then the team might hire project managers who own that more traditional project management-oriented work(That work may include things like **budget management, risks spreadsheets, or Gantt charts**. But as I've said, **it's common for traditional project managers to take on the role of a Scrum Master**). They rely heavily on things like decision making, communicating flexibility, organizational skills, and more, and the position of Scrum Master is a natural fit for many of us as project managers.

Now you know a bit more about the pillars and the role of the Scrum Master. 

To recap: 
- a Scrum Master must possess skills like organization, leadership, the ability to facilitate, coach, and manage stakeholders. 
- It can be quite different from a project manager in terms of their responsibilities, but the role may be played by the same individual since they require a similar skill set.



###  2.3. <a name='Pete:WhatmakesaneffectiveScrumMaster'></a>Pete: What makes an effective Scrum Master

Hi, my name is Pete, and I work as a Technical Program Manager in Google. The responsibility of the Technical Program Manager is to see the end-to-end execution of the programs for which they are responsible. Within the day-to-day, we use the Agile framework as a core part of our deliveries. It allows us to iterate on the process, and it allows us to deliver products to our users much faster than traditional models. The Scrum framework is just a single implementation of the Agile methodology. Scrum focuses on delivering rapid value to the customers and our users by working iteratively over short periods of time to deliver a product to our customers. At its core, Scrum is a self-organizing team, which means we bring individuals together. So it's important that when we bring these individuals together, everyone is clear in the roles and responsibility that they lend to this team. So it requires that there be a leader, or a Scrum Master, who helps to ensure that we're always working towards the same goal. What makes an effective Scrum Master is one that has the following qualities: first, you're a good teacher and communicator. This is important because you need to instill the Scrum values throughout the team. Secondly, a Scrum Master best leads the team when he or she is influential. In most cases, the Scrum Master does not have managerial responsibilities for the rest of the team, so it has to be through influence. And two key ways of doing this is to ensure that the team is operating effectively, and second, ensuring that there is a culture of motivation within the team. As a leader, you're also expected to give direction to the team and ensure that we're continuing to work towards the goals that we've set out to achieve during the Sprint. And by Sprint, it's a focused effort towards particular, well-defined goals, and it's like a burst of energy for the team to get us there. I love the aspects of working with people and trying to come towards a common goal. It's not always easy, but it's always satisfying for me.

###  2.4. <a name='TraitsofaneffectiveProductOwner'></a>Traits of an effective Product Owner

A Product Owner is **tasked with ensuring that the team is building the right product or service**. An efficient Scrum Team isn't useful to anyone if they're creating a product that users don't want. The Product Owner ensures that the team is building the right thing.

A Product Owner is responsible for:
- **continuously maximizing the value of the product delivered** by the Scrum Team. 
- key activity is **acting as the voice of the customer within the team**. 
  - They represent and express this voice through their **ownership of the Product Backlog**. As a quick reminder, the Product Backlog is the single authoritative source for things that a Scrum Team works on to achieve the project goal. 
- helping the Scrum Team understand why their work matters within the overall goal and mission.
- prioritize the Product Backlog to optimize the delivery of goals and deliver value to customers. 
- ensures that the Product Backlog is visible and transparent to all. 
- responsible for making sure that the product or service fulfills the customer's needs. 

So how do Product Owners accomplish all of that? They rely on their key character traits. 
A Product Owner's role requires them to be:
- **customer-focused**, so they must understand a customer's needs and the industry of their business extremely well.
- **decisive, great communicators**, and understand both sides of the issue so they can defend their decisions to the team.
- **flexible and open to new information** that can generate a profitable change for the team. 
- to be **optimistic and positive**, especially since they're delivering the product vision to the team. And they must inspire the team to believe in their mission. 
- to be **available**. The iterative nature of Scrum means that the team needs the Product Owner to help inspect, adapt, and plan the next iteration on a regular basis. 
- must be **collaborative**. Product Owners will have to work with their team to ensure that the customer's needs are met, and that will require meeting with and working alongside several stakeholders. So as you may have noticed, the Product Owners are responsible for a lot of the project, just like the Scrum Master.

Let's imagine an example of how a Product Owner will work within Virtual Verde:
- For example, let's say that the Virtual Verde Product Owner told the Development Team that they need to work on the following features in this order: 
  - flower arrangements, 
  - potted succulents, 
  - large potted plants, and 
  - herb gardens. 
- When the Development Team reviews the list, they tell the Product Owner that herb gardens originally sounded difficult to deliver because they're considered regulated food items. But in reality, the vendor specialist on the Development Team knows that herb gardens are actually way easier than we thought, because our vendor already has many herb gardens in stock. So the Development Team suggests focusing on herb gardens first. A Product Owner who is flexible and customer-focused will adjust the priorities based on this new information.

**Product Owner acts as the voice of the customer and is customer-focused, decisive, flexible, optimistic, available, and collaborative.** 

###  2.5. <a name='TraitsofaneffectiveDevelopmentTeam'></a>Traits of an effective Development Team


- The Development Team is made up of the people who do the work to build the product. 
  - The size of the team ranges from three to nine people. 
    - This ensures that the team is small enough to remain nimble but large enough to complete significant work within each Sprint. 
    - Getting the team size just right is important. Smaller teams can struggle with diversity of skills and ideas, while larger teams may run into issues where there are too many opinions and streams of communication. 
  - The Development Team should be cross-functional so they're capable of building the product or service in-house since **the team has all of the required skills**. 
  - The Development Team also owns their processes and structures. They have to be self-organizing and can't rely on others to tell them how to organize. 
  - They continuously operate as a team, rather than individuals, and they support each other in reaching the team's goals. Lastly, 
  - the Development Team acknowledges that the best products emerge from teams who are customer-oriented and focus on the user when building their products. 
  - 
  
Many Scrum Teams **prefer to be co-located**, meaning **they work alongside each other in the same physical space**. Many believe the team delivers higher-quality work and improves faster if they're co-located. But this isn't always possible for every team. 

Let's take a look at an example. 
- Let's say that the Virtual Verde team discovers an issue with one of their plant vendors. They can't make the holiday rush due to some product quality issues. The quality assurance specialist on the team can fly across the country and help the vendor, but that means they won't be available to complete their assigned tasks. If the team is co-located, they can quickly huddle in a conference room and write out some ideas to either get the work done or rearrange the work so this doesn't impact the Sprint goals. If they don't sit together or work in different time zones, this collaboration is a bit harder, has to be done over phone or email, or you'll have to coordinate the schedules for a meeting, and you might have to come up with workarounds that ultimately lead to overall project delays. 
- On the flip side, we live in a world where working virtually is possible. So if the quality assurance specialist needs to be on a call, they can dial in or join via videoconferencing platforms like Zoom or Skype. 
- Both co-locating and working virtually has it's benefits and drawbacks, so make sure to use whichever method is best for your team. 

At this point, we've covered each role within a Scrum Team. A Product Owner is responsible for meeting customers' needs, also known as "building the right thing." A Development Team is responsible for creating the product, also known as "building the thing right." The Scrum Master is responsible for improving efficiency, also known as "building the thing fast." We know that each role is vitally important to achieving the goals of a Scrum project. No individual is more or less important than the others. They all work together as a team to create value for their users and customers. 

###  2.6. <a name='ReadingUnderstandingScrumTeamroles'></a>Reading Understanding Scrum Team roles

Each Scrum Team member plays a vital role in the project’s success. In order to help a project get to the finish line, you will need to understand what each of these roles entail. In this reading, you will learn how the responsibilities of the Scrum Master, Product Owner, and Development Team differ from one another.

#### The Scrum Master
One key responsibility of the Scrum Master is to help the team understand and follow Scrum theory. More specifically, according to the Scrum Guide, “The Scrum Master is accountable for establishing Scrum as defined in the Scrum Guide. They do this by helping everyone understand Scrum theory and practice, both within the Scrum Team and the Organization. The Scrum Master is accountable for the Scrum Team’s effectiveness. They do this by enabling the Scrum Team to improve its practices, within the Scrum framework.” The Scrum Master makes sure that important meetings occur, like the Daily Scrum. In the same way that a coach would be aware of the game clock, the Scrum Master is tasked with making sure that the meeting is kept within the appropriate timebox. A timebox is a Scrum concept that refers to the estimated duration for an event.

The Scrum Master acts as a coach to the Scrum Team—they encourage the team to build the product in the time frame. They also support the team by creating a collaborative environment so the project’s goals are achieved. The Scrum Master’s duties include: 

- Coaching the team members in self-management and cross-functionality
- Helping the Scrum Team focus on creating high-value Increments that meet the Definition of Done (an agreed upon set of items that must be completed before a project or user story can be considered complete)
- Causing the removal of impediments to the Scrum Team’s progress
- Ensuring that all Scrum events take place and are positive, productive, and kept within the timebox (a Scrum concept that refers to the estimated duration for an event)

#### Scrum Master vs. project manager 
The role of the Scrum Master is sometimes confused with the role of the project manager. While the two roles share related skills and qualities, they are very different roles.

A Scrum Master is responsible for helping the team understand Scrum theory and practice. They ensure Scrum events take place and help the team focus on delivering value by removing impediments. But unlike a traditional project manager, they do not take on the management of changes in scope or priorities. Additionally, Scrum Masters do not maintain traditional project artifacts like Gantt charts.  

#### The Product Owner
According to the Scrum Guide, “The Product Owner is responsible for maximizing the value of the product resulting from work of the Scrum Team. How this is done may vary widely across organizations, Scrum Teams, and individuals.” Product Owners maximize the value of the product by representing and expressing the voice of the customer throughout the project duration. A product isn’t useful to its customers if that product doesn’t fulfill their expectations and meet their needs. The Product Owner’s duties include:

- Developing and explicitly communicating the Product Goal
- Creating and clearly communicating Product Backlog items (The Product Backlog contains all of the features, requirements, and activities associated with deliverables to achieve the goal of the project.)
- Ensuring that the Product Backlog is transparent, visible, and understood

#### Product Owner vs. project manager
In traditional project management, scope management is the primary responsibility of the project manager. But in Scrum, the definition and management of product scope falls to the Product Owner. Conversely, the Product Owner isn’t responsible for team performance—they aren’t considered to be a manager. The project manager leads the project team to meet the project’s objectives and oversees tasks and progress.

There are also similarities between the Product Owner and project manager roles. For instance, both roles are tasked with stakeholder management. This means they both must practice and facilitate effective communication among team members and stakeholders.

Additionally, in many companies—including Google—the definition of product or solution scope is the responsibility of a separate role called a product manager. So, it is important when joining any new company to discover how that company approaches the area of product definition, requirements development, and user research to understand what they consider to be the domain of the project manager.

#### The Development Team
The Development Team, also referred to as Developers, is made up of the people who do the work to build the product. According to the Scrum Guide, Developers are “the people in the Scrum Team that are committed to creating any aspect of a usable Increment each Sprint.” Their responsibilities include: 

- Creating a plan for the Sprint, the Sprint Backlog (the set of Product Backlog items that are selected to be completed during the upcoming Sprint)
- Instilling quality by adhering to a Definition of Done
- Adapting their plan each day toward the Sprint Goal
- Holding each other accountable as professionals
- Executing sprints by designing, building, and testing Product Backlog items in increments

An important aspect of the Development Team that is worth highlighting is that they are cross-functional, meaning that you will have team members who are specialists in different disciplines. In a software team, that might mean having a web developer, a database developer, and a user experience specialist. In a marketing team, that might mean having writers, editors, search engine optimization specialists, and business analysts. 

#### The roles working together
The Scrum roles fit together, and each brings their unique qualities, skills, and responsibilities jointly to lead to successful Scrum projects. It is crucial for everyone on the team to understand their role and how they work together to deliver value to their users and customers. When the team has this shared understanding, they can better support each other during the practices of Scrum. 

#### Necessary traits for each role 
Overall, you will want people on your team who are interested in constant collaboration and improvement. More specifically, it is great to have team members who value feedback, bring energy and fun to the team, and can admit and learn from their mistakes. Let’s look at what traits each team member should exhibit:

The Product Owner should be able to confidently provide the team with general direction, requirements, and objectives for the project but will allow the team to determine how to accomplish these goals. Your team will want a Product Owner who promotes the product vision and prioritizes the product backlog to maximize the value for the customer. In order to deliver on this, the Product Owner should be organized and have strong communication skills.

The Scrum Master should have strong leadership skills that enable them to be efficient facilitators and negotiators who know how to resolve conflict. Your team will want a Scrum Master who aims to effectively coach the Development Team, facilitate events, and eliminate distractions that may impede the team’s progress. 

When it comes to the Development Team, you will want individuals who remain focused on completing deliverables and producing a superior final product. Since the team is self-organizing and cross-functional, you will want people who are eager to work together and not afraid to compromise for the greater good of the product. 

###  2.7. <a name='ReadingCharacteristicsofagreatScrumTeam'></a>Reading Characteristics of a great Scrum Team

According to the Scrum Guide, Scrum is a framework that people can use to address complex problems, and productively and creatively develop products of the highest possible value. It's a tool organizations can use to increase their agility.

Within Scrum, self-organizing, cross-functional, and highly productive teams do the work: creating valuable releasable product increments. Scrum offers a framework that catalyzes teams’ learning through discovery, collaboration, and experimentation.

A great Scrum Team consists of a Product Owner, who maximizes value, a Scrum Master, who enables continuous improvement, and a Development Team, that focuses on delivering high-quality product increments.

For sure, this sounds great!

But what are the characteristics of such a great Scrum team? This article answers that question. It describes the characteristics and skills of a great Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Development Team.

#### Product Owner
The Product Owner is responsible for maximizing the product’s value and the work of the Development Team. It's a one-person role that brings the customer perspective of the product to a Scrum Team.

The Product Owner is responsible for:
- Developing and maintaining a product vision and market strategy
- Product management
- Ordering and managing the Product Backlog
- Involving stakeholders and end-users in Product Backlog refinement and backlog management
- Alignment with other Product Owners when needed from an overall product, company, or customer perspective

#### A Great Product Owner ...
- **Embraces, shares and socializes the product vision**. A great Product Owner represents the customer’s voice and creates a product vision with the stakeholders. Every decision is taken with the product vision in mind. This ensures sustainable product development, provides clarity for the development team, and increases the chances of product success drastically.
- **Exceeds the customer’s expectation**. A great Product Owner truly understands the customer’s intentions and goals with the product and is able to outstrip its expectations. Customer delight is the ultimate goal!
- **Is empowered**. A great Product Owner is empowered to make decisions related to the product. Sure, creating support for their decisions might take some time, but swiftly making important decisions is a primary condition for a sustainable pace of the development team.
- **Orders the product backlog**. A great Product Owner understands that the product backlog should be ordered. Priority, risk, value, learning opportunities, and dependencies are all taken into account and balanced with each other. For example, when building a house, the roof might have the highest priority considering possible rain. But still, it's necessary to build the foundation and walls earlier and therefore prioritize them above the construction of the roof.
- **Prefers face-to-face communication**. A great Product Owner understands that the best way to convey information is face-to-face communication. User stories are explained in a personal conversation. If a tool is used for backlog management, its function is to support the dialogue. It never replaces good old-fashioned conversation.
- **Knows modeling techniques**. A great Product Owner has a backpack full of valuable modeling techniques. They know when to apply a specific model. Examples are Business Model Generation, Lean Startup, or Impact Mapping. Based on these models they know how to drive product success.
- **Shares experiences**. A great Product Owner shares experiences with peers. This might be within the organization, and outside it: seminars and conferences are a great way to share experiences and gather knowledge. In addition, writing down lessons learned can be valuable for other Product Owners.
- **Owns user-story mapping**. A great Product Owner should master the concept of user-story mapping. It's a technique that adds a second dimension to your backlog. This visualization shows the big picture of the product backlog. Jeff Patton has written some excellent material about the concept of story mapping.
- **Has a focus on functionality**. A great Product Owner has a focus on functionality and the non-functional aspects of the product. Hours or even story points are less important. The goal of the Product Owner is to maximize value for the customer. It’s the functionality that has value; therefore, this is the main focus for the Product Owner.
- **Is knowledgeable**. A great Product Owner has in-depth (non-)functional product knowledge and understands the technical composition. For large products, it might be difficult to understand all the details, and scaling the Product Owner role might be an option. However, the Product Owner should always know the larger pieces of the puzzle and hereby make conscious, solid decisions.
- **Understands the business domain**. A great Product Owner understands the domain and environment they are part of. A product should always be built with its context taken into account. This includes understanding the organization paying for the development but also being aware of the latest market conditions. Shipping an awesome product after the window of opportunity closes is quite useless.
- **Acts on different levels**. A great Product Owner knows how to act on different levels. The most common way to define these levels is strategic, tactical, and operational. A Product Owner should know how to explain the product strategy at board level, create support at middle management, and motivate the development team with their daily challenges.
- **Knows the 5 levels of Agile planning**. Within Agile, planning is done continuously. Every product needs a vision (level 1) which will provide input to the product roadmap (level 2). The roadmap is a long-range strategic plan of how the business would like to see the product evolve. Based on the roadmap, market conditions, and status of the product the Product Owner can plan releases (level 3). During the Sprint Planning (level 4) the team plan and agree on Product Backlog Items they are confident they can complete during the Sprint and help them achieve the Sprint Goal. The Daily Scrum (level 5) is used to inspect and adapt the team's progress towards realizing the Sprint Goal.
- **Is available**. A great Product Owner is available to the stakeholders, the customers, the development team, and the Scrum Master. Important questions are answered quickly and valuable information is provided on time. The Product Owner ensures that their availability never blocks the progress of the development team.
- **Is able to say 'No'**. A great Product Owner knows how and when to say no. This is probably the most obvious - but most difficult - characteristic to master. Saying yes to a new idea or feature is easy; it's just another item for the product backlog. However, good backlog management encompasses creating a manageable product backlog with items that probably will get realized. Adding items to the backlog knowing nothing will happen with them only creates 'waste' and false expectations.
- **Acts as a "Mini-CEO"**. A great Product Owner basically is a mini-CEO for their product. They have a keen eye for opportunities, focus on business value and the Return On Investment and act proactively on possible risks and threats. Everything with the growth (size, quality, market share) of the product taken into account.
- **Knows the different types of valid Product Backlog items**. A great Product Owner can clarify the fact that the Product Backlog consists of more than only new features. For example: technical innovation, bugs, defects, non-functional requirements and experiments, should also be taken into account.
- **Takes Backlog Refinement seriously**. A great Product Owner spends enough time refining the Product Backlog. Backlog Refinement is the act of adding detail, estimates, and order to items in the Product Backlog. The outcome should be a Product Backlog that is granular enough and well understood by the whole team. On average the Development Team spends no more than 10% of the capacity of the Development Team on refinement activities. The way refinement is done isn’t prescribed and is up to the team. The Product Owner can involve stakeholders and the Development Team in backlog refinement. The stakeholders are involved because it gives them the opportunity to explain their wishes and desires. The Development Team is able to clarify functional and technical questions or implications. This approach ensures common understanding and increases the quality of the Product Backlog considerably. As a consequence, the opportunity to build the right product with the desired quality will also increase.

#### Scrum Master
According to the Scrum Guide the Scrum Master is responsible for ensuring Scrum is understood and enacted. Scrum Masters do this by ensuring that the Scrum Team adheres to Scrum theory, practices, and rules. The Scrum Master is a servant-leader for the Scrum Team. The Scrum Master helps those outside the Scrum Team understand which of their interactions with the Scrum Team are helpful and which aren’t. The Scrum Master helps everyone change these interactions to maximize the value created by the Scrum Team.

The role of a Scrum Master is one of many stances and diversity. A great Scrum Master is aware of them and knows when and how to apply them, depending on the situation and context. All that the Scrum Master does has the purpose of helping people understand and better apply the Scrum framework.

The Scrum Master acts as a:
- **Servant Leader** whose focus is on the needs of the team members and those they serve (the customer), with the goal of achieving results in line with the organization's values, principles, and business objectives
- **Facilitator** by setting the stage and providing clear boundaries in which the team can collaborate
- **Coach** by coaching individuals with a focus on mindset and behavior: the team in continuous improvement, and the organization in truly collaborating with the Scrum team
- **Conflict navigator** to address unproductive attitudes and dysfunctional behaviors
- **Manager** responsible for managing impediments, eliminate waste, managing the process, managing the team's health, managing the boundaries of self-organization, and managing the culture
- **Mentor** that transfers Agile knowledge and experience to the team
- **Teacher** to ensure Scrum and other relevant methods are understood and enacted

#### A Great Scrum Master ...
- **Involves the team with setting up the process**. A great Scrum Master ensures the entire team supports the chosen Scrum process and understands the value of every event. The daily Scrum, for example, is planned at a time that suits all team members. A common concern about Scrum is the amount of 'meetings' involving the team with planning the events and discussing the desired outcome will increase engagement for sure.
- **Understands team development**. A great Scrum Master is aware of the different phases a team will go through when working as a team. They understand Tuckman's different stages of team development: forming, storming, norming, performing, and adjourning. The importance of a stable team composition is also clear.
- **Understands principles are more important than practices**. Without a solid, supported understanding of the Agile principles, every implemented practice is basically useless. It's an empty shell. An in-depth understanding of the Agile principles by everyone involved will increase the chances of successful usage of practices drastically.
- **Recognizes and acts on team conflict**. A great Scrum Master recognizes team conflict in an early stage and can apply different activities to resolve it. A great Scrum Master understands conflict isn't necessarily wrong. Healthy conflict and constructive disagreement can be used to build an even stronger team.
- **Dares to be disruptive**. A great Scrum Master understands some changes will only occur by being disruptive. They know when it's necessary and is prepared to be disruptive enough to enforce a change within the organization.
- **Is aware of the smell of the place**. A great Scrum Master can have an impact on the culture of the organization so that the Scrum teams can really flourish. They understand that changing people's behavior isn't about changing people, but changing the context which they are in: the smell of the place.
- **Is both dispensable and wanted**. A great Scrum Master has supported the growth of teams in such a manner they don't need them anymore on a daily basis. But due to their proven contribution they will get asked for advice frequently. Their role has changed from a daily coach and teacher to a periodical mentor and advisor.
- **Let their team fail (occasionally)**. A great Scrum Master knows when to prevent the team from failing but also understands when they shouldn't prevent it. The lessons learned after a mistake might be more valuable than some good advice beforehand.
- **Encourages ownership**. A great Scrum Master encourages and coaches the team to take ownership of their process, task wall and environment.
- **Has faith in self-organization**. A great Scrum Master understands the power of a self-organizing team. "Bring it to the team" is their daily motto. Attributes of self-organizing teams are that employees reduce their dependency on management and increase ownership of the work. Some examples are: they make their own decisions about their work, estimate their own work, have a strong willingness to cooperate and team members feel they are coming together to achieve a common purpose through release goals, sprint goals, and team goals.
- **Values rhythm**. A great Scrum Master understands the value of a steady sprint rhythm and does everything to create and maintain it. The sprint rhythm should become the team’s heartbeat, which doesn't cost any energy. Everyone knows the date, time and purpose of every Scrum event. They know what is expected and how to prepare. Therefore a complete focus on the content is possible.
- **Knows the power of silence**. A great Scrum Master knows how to truly listen and is comfortable with silence. Not talking, but listening. They are aware of the three levels of listening - level 1 internal listening, level 2 focused listening, level 3 global listening, and knows how to use them. They listen carefully to what is said, but also to what isn't said.
- **Observes**. A great Scrum Master observes their team with their daily activities. They don't have an active role within every session. The daily Scrum, for example, is held by the team for the team. They observe the session and hereby has a more clear view to what is being discussed (and what isn't) and what everyone’s role is during the standup.
- **Shares experiences**. Great Scrum Masters shares experiences with peers. This might be within the organization, but also seminars and conferences are a great way to share experiences and gather knowledge. Of course writing down and sharing your lessons learned is also highly appreciated. And yes, for the attentive readers, this is exactly the same as for the Product Owner and the Development Team.
- **Has a backpack full of different retrospective formats**. A great Scrum Master can apply lots of different retrospective formats. This ensures the retrospective will be a fun and useful event for the team. They know what format is most suitable given the team's situation. Even better: they support the team by hosting their own retrospective. To improve involvement this is an absolute winner!
- **Can coach professionally**. A great Scrum Master understands the power of professional coaching and has mastered this area of study. Books like Coaching Agile Teams and Co-Active Coaching don't have any secrets for them. They know how to guide without prescribing. They can close the gap between thinking about doing and actually doing; they can help the team members understand themselves better so they can find new ways to make the most of their potential. Yes, these last few sentences are actually an aggregation of several coaching definitions, but it sounds quite cool!
- **Has influence at organizational level**. A great Scrum Master knows how to motivate and influence at tactic and strategic level. Some of the most difficult impediments a team will face occur at these levels; therefore it's important a Scrum Master knows how to act at the different levels within an organization.
- **Prevent impediments**. A great Scrum Master not only resolves impediments, they prevent them. Due to their experiences they are able to 'read' situations and hereby act on them proactively.
- **Isn't noticed**. A great Scrum Master isn't always actively present. They don’t disturb the team unnecessarily and supports the team in getting into the desired 'flow'. But when the team needs them, they are always available.
- **Forms a great duo with the Product Owner**. A great Scrum Master has an outstanding partnership with the Product Owner. Although their interests are somewhat different, the Product Owner 'pushes' the team, the Scrum Master protects the team. A solid partnership is extremely valuable for the Development Team. Together they can build the foundation for astonishing results.
- **Allows leadership to thrive**. A great Scrum Master allows leadership within the team to thrive and sees this as a successful outcome of their coaching style. They believe in the motto "leadership isn't just a title, it's an attitude". And it's an attitude everyone in the team can apply.
- **Is familiar with gamification**. A great Scrum Master is able to use the concepts of game thinking and game mechanics to engage users in solving problems and increase users' contribution.
- **Understands there's more than just Scrum**. A great Scrum Master is also competent with XP, Kanban and Lean. They know the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and risks of every method/framework/principle and how & when to use them. They try to understand what a team wants to achieve and helps them become more effective in an Agile context.
- **Leads by example**. A great Scrum Master is someone that team members want to follow. They do this by inspiring them to unleash their inner potential and showing them the desired behavior. At difficult times, they show them how to act on it; they don't panic, stay calm, and help the team find the solution.
- **Is a born facilitator**. A great Scrum Master has facilitation as their second nature. All the Scrum events are a joy to attend, and every other meeting is well prepared, useful and fun, and has a clear outcome and purpose.

#### Development Team
According to the Scrum Guide the Development Team consists of professionals who do the work of delivering a potentially releasable Increment of "Done" product at the end of each Sprint. Only members of the Development Team create the Increment. Development Teams are structured and empowered by the organization to organize and manage their own work. The resulting synergy optimizes the Development Team’s overall efficiency and effectiveness.

Development Teams have the following characteristics:

- Self-organizing. They decide how to turn Product Backlog Items into working solutions.
- Cross-functional. As a whole, they've got all the skills necessary to create the product Increment.
- No titles. Everyone is a Developer, no one has a special title.
- No sub-teams in the Development team.
- Committed to achieving the Sprint Goal and delivering a high-quality increment

#### A Great Development Team ...
- **Pursues technical excellence**. Great Development Teams use Extreme Programming as a source of inspiration. XP provides practices and rules that revolve around planning, designing, coding, and testing. Examples are refactoring (continuously streamlining the code), pair programming, continuous integration (programmers merge their code into a code baseline whenever they have a clean build that has passed the unit tests), unit testing (testing code at development level) and acceptance testing (establishing specific acceptance tests).
- **Applies team swarming**. Great Development Teams master the concept of 'team swarming'. This is a method of working where a team works on just a few items at a time, preferably even one item at a time. Each item is finished as quickly as possible by having many people work on it together, rather than having a series of handoffs.
- **Uses spike solutions**. A spike is a concise, timeboxed activity used to discover work needed to accomplish a large ambiguous task. Great Development Teams uses spike experiments to solve challenging technical, architectural, or design problems.
- **Refines the product backlog as a team**. Great Development Teams consider backlog refinement a team effort. They understand that the quality of the Product Backlog is the foundation for a sustainable development pace and building great products. Although the Product Owner is responsible for the product backlog, it's up to the entire team to refine it.
- **Respects the Boy Scout Rule**. Great Development Teams use the Scout Rule: **always leave the campground cleaner than you found it**. Translated to software development: always leave the code base in a better state than you've found it. If you find messy code, clean it up, regardless of who might have made the mess.
- **Criticizes ideas, not people**. Great Development Teams criticize ideas, not people. Period.
- **Share experiences**. Great Development Teams share experiences with peers. This might be within the organization, but also seminars and conferences are a great way to share experiences and gather knowledge. Of course, writing down and sharing your lessons learned is also highly appreciated. And yes, for the attentive readers, this is exactly the same as for the Product Owner.
- **Understands the importance of having some slack**. Great Development Teams have some slack within their sprint. Human beings can't be productive all day long. They need time to relax, have a chat at the coffee machine or play table football. They need some slack to be innovative and creative. They need time to have some fun. By doing so, they ensure high motivation and maximum productivity. But slack is also necessary to handle emergencies that might arise; you don't want your entire sprint to get into trouble when you need to create a hot-fix. Therefore: build in some slack! And when the sprint doesn't contain any emergencies: great! This gives the team the opportunity for some refactoring and emergent design. It's a win-win!
- **Has fun with each other**. Great Development Teams ensure a healthy dose of fun is present every day. Fostering fun, energy, interaction and collaboration creates an atmosphere in which the team will flourish!
- **Don't have any Scrum 'meetings'**. Great Development Teams consider Scrum events as opportunities for conversations. Tobias Mayer describes this perfectly in his book ‘The People's Scrum': "Scrum is centered on people, and people have conversations. There are conversations to plan, align, and to reflect. We have these conversations at the appropriate times, and for the appropriate durations in order to inform our work. If we don’t have these conversations, we won’t know what we are doing (planning), we won’t know where we are going (alignment), and we’ll keep repeating the same mistakes (reflection)."
- **Knows their customer**. Great Development Teams know their real customer. They are in direct contact with them. They truly understand what they desire and are therefore able to make the right (technical) decisions.
- **Can explain the (business) value of non-functional requirements**. Great Development Teams understand the importance of non-functional requirements such as  performance, security, and scalability. They can explain the (business) value to their Product Owner and customer and thereby ensure its part of the product backlog.
- **Trust each other**. Great Development Teams trust each other. Yes, this is obvious. But, without trust, it's impossible for a team to achieve greatness.
- **Keep the retrospective fun**. Great Development Teams think of retrospective formats themselves. They support the Scrum Master with creative, fun, and useful formats and offer to facilitate the sessions themselves.
- **Deliver features during the sprint**. Great Development Teams deliver features continuously. Basically, they don't need sprints anymore. Feedback is gathered and processed whenever an item is ‘done’; this creates a flow of continuous delivery.
- **Don't need a sprint 0**. Great Development Teams don't need a sprint 0 before the 'real' sprints start. They can deliver business value in the first sprint.
- **Acts truly cross-functional**. Great Development Teams not only have a cross-functional composition, they truly act cross-functionally. They don't talk about different roles within the team but are focused on delivering a releasable product for every sprint as a team. Everyone is doing the stuff that's necessary to achieve the sprint goal.
- **Updates the Scrum board themselves**. Great Development Teams ensure the Scrum/team board is always up-to-date—it's an accurate reflection of reality. They don't need a Scrum Master to encourage them; instead, they collaborate with the Scrum Master to update the board.
- **Spends time on innovation**. Great Development Teams understand the importance of technical/architectural innovation. They know it's necessary to keep up with the rapidly changing environment and technology. They ensure they have time for innovation during regular working hours, and that it's fun and exciting!
- **Don't need a Definition of Done**. Great Development Teams deeply understand what 'done' means for them. For the team members, writing down the Definition of Done isn't necessary anymore. They know. The only reason to use it is to make the 'done state' transparent for their stakeholders.
- **Knows how to give feedback**. Great Development Teams have learned how to give each other feedback honestly and respectfully. They grasp the concept of the 'Situation - Behavior - Impact Feedback Tool' and therefore provide clear, actionable feedback. They give feedback whenever it's necessary and don't postpone feedback until the retrospective.
- **Manages their team composition**. Great Development Teams manage their own team composition. Whenever specific skills are necessary, they collaborate with other teams to discuss the opportunities of 'hiring' specific skills.
- **Practice collective ownership**. Great Development Teams understand the importance of collective ownership. Therefore, they rotate developers across different modules of the applications and systems to encourage collective ownership.
- **Fix dependencies with other teams**. Great Development Teams are aware of possible dependencies with other teams and manage these by themselves. This approach  ensures a sustainable development pace for the product.
- **Don't need story points**. Great Development Teams don't focus on story points anymore. They've refined the product backlog so that the size for the top items doesn’t vary much. They know how many items they can realize each sprint. Counting the number of stories is enough for them. 

##  3. <a name='Review:Scrum101'></a>Review: Scrum 101

###  3.1. <a name='Wrap-up'></a>Wrap-up

Congrats on finishing a new section! You're on your way to becoming a Scrum expert. Throughout these videos, we've extensively reviewed a theory in the Agile framework called Scrum. As a refresher, Scrum is the most common framework that uses an Agile approach, but there are others, like Kanban or Lean. We discussed those approaches in previous videos. I introduced you to every Scrum Team member's source of truth, the Scrum Guide, which you can always use as a resource. We discussed the Scrum theory, which has three pillars: transparency, inspection, and adaptation. And we explored the five Scrum values: commitment, courage, focus, openness, and respect. We went over the essential roles on a Scrum Team. You may remember that those roles are the Scrum Master, who ensures the team builds the thing fast; the Product Owner, who is in charge of building the right thing; and the Development Team, whose role is to ensure the team builds the thing right. It's quite a feat that you've gotten this far in the program, so I hope you're really proud of yourself. I'll meet you in the next section, where we'll discuss how to implement Scrum.

