<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Storyboarding](#Storyboarding)
	* 1.1. [Storyboarding](#Storyboarding-1)
* 2. [Scenarios](#Scenarios)
	* 2.1. [Scenarios](#Scenarios-1)
	* 2.2. [Scenario Advantages and Disadvantages](#ScenarioAdvantagesandDisadvantages)
	* 2.3. [Reading Scenarios / Scenarios Advantages & Disadvantages - Slides](#ReadingScenariosScenariosAdvantagesDisadvantages-Slides)
	* 2.4. [Reading Requirements Elicitation: Towards the Unknown Unknowns](#ReadingRequirementsElicitation:TowardstheUnknownUnknowns)
* 3. [Mockups and Prototypes](#MockupsandPrototypes)
	* 3.1. [Mockups and Prototypes](#MockupsandPrototypes-1)
	* 3.2. [Reading Mockups and Prototypes - Slides](#ReadingMockupsandPrototypes-Slides)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='Storyboarding'></a>Storyboarding

**Narratives** are especially useful early on for eliciting and validating the understanding that you currently have of the system. One way to tell narratives is through **storyboarding**. 
You can also use scenarios and prototypes.
- With prototyping, you could do a prototype or you could also create an actual working product and we'll go through the differences there. Please note that when I say **working product in an agile environment**, 
   - I mean that the product actually executes, it is not complete but it does work. 
   - You're adding individual features that work each individual iteration. You show how it works. Then you get feedback to keep growing and make happy paths and sad paths as identified by the users through the storyboards and the scenarios as they're needed. 
   - **Happy and sad paths** will be discussed shortly. 

All of these different techniques can be used in any software development life cycle. The terms that I just used though of storyboarding, scenarios, I also mentioned user stories, these are things that are usually heard within an agile environment. So, how do we get requirements? 

First, we're trying to ask how are things running on the system as it is? Then how should they be on the system to be? One of the loosest forms to represent these kinds of questions, is a storyboard. Storyboards are frequently used in agile development models but they can certainly be applied anywhere else in a spiral model and a waterfall model or any of the other design patterns that we have out there. 

Think of a storyboard as a movie just made out of a bunch of individual snapshots. The snapshots all come together. They tell a story about the system. Well, hopefully, in a movie they tell the story about the movie. But these are quick and easy to understand for all that are involved. 
- Two techniques to create a storyboard include **passive and active**. 
   - In passive storyboarding, you're kind of going off of your domain knowledge and say, Okay, I think I know what we want to do. So, given that, here's the story. You tell your stakeholder the story and you see if you're right. Your other stakeholders go through that story with you and have them explain and validate your statements. 
   - In active storyboarding on the other hand, s**takeholders are saying, "here's what we want to do," and you kind of create the story board together**. The stakeholders are contributing to joint exploration. This is useful when you aren't really sure what's going on. You're working together in a very active way. In either technique, you need to determine how the story of the software is coming together. 

In addition to determining the main actors, also you need to ask who are the rest of the cast? Do you have walk ons in the background? Who all do you need to talk to? This allows you to figure out more about your domain knowledge and know what questions you need to ask and whom you need to ask those questions too. So, going along with the movie idea or I guess a TV idea, you just want to ask what happened through specific episodes where you could be involving the main cast, the main characters, all the cast and the Locketts. You ask questions like what if such and such an event occurs. If that happens, what is the ideal outcome? If things go totally wrong, what are the consequences? 
  
- Storyboards are beautifully simple. And as you can see from this picture, they're understood by all. 
   - They lack a lot of detail. However, they can act as a key discussion point. You're getting started. 
   - If you are really, really bad at art, remember their drawing stick figures? Totally fine. I don't mean that as a joke. Seriously, a lot of these drawings, these storyboards and the scenarios that we'll be talking about here, are being drawn out on napkins when you go to a lunch meeting and you're discussing possibilities or maybe skyping over the phone or things like that. They look horrible. It's okay.
   - In this picture you see a very simple example of a happy path of a prank. In this picture the kid wants to play a trick on his friend. So, the kid puts a dollar or something. We're going to assume that we're putting it on a string, and we're going to assume that the friend could not see that string, and the person who's pulling the prank goes and hides behind a bush. The friend walks by says, "A dollar!" And they try to pick it up. The hacker of the situation then suddenly or maybe very quickly pulls away the trap. They pull away the dollar. There are many possible consequences after that happens. The happy path is that the friends tricked and they go oh, how did I fall for that? And they start laughing. Or they could get really mad. Or in trying to get the dollar, they could fall and in doing so fall into the street, get hit by a passing car. Okay, that went into the morbid side of things. But let's come back to the idea of what we're doing in dealing with software requirements. We have happy paths. We have sad paths. 
   - **Happy paths** are w**hat we expect to happen**. In this example,the friend gets tricked, both laugh over it. 
   - The **sad paths** are basically **all of the other possibilities**. Sad paths are things in your program that are totally feasible, but just not quite what you want. 
   - As another example, if you were searching for, say, a movie title online. We go on to, let's say, Amazon and we look for some movie. The happy path would be that you type in the title of the movie and movie pops up. Good. A sad path would be that Amazon does not find it or whatever movies searcher you're using. The question is then what happens? If you are creating a site like this, you could have the user add the movie in themselves and continue the growth of the system. You could give an error and just say, sorry, it's not here, or your whole system could crash. Note that sad paths are different from exceptions in code. If you do a lot of coding, exceptions are things where you're catching code that could kill the program, it could modify answers within your programs that the program is able to continue to proceed, or it might give an error. We've all seen the exception code and we've worked with the errors. But these are different from sad paths in that exceptions deal with recovery. Sad paths deal with the stuff that we just hope won't happen. It's not what we necessarily expect, but it really is likely at any point.

##  2. <a name='Scenarios'></a>Scenarios

###  2.1. <a name='Scenarios-1'></a>Scenarios
0:00
When we create storyboards and begin discussing them, whether we're doing it in a passive way or an active way, we try to find the happy and the sad paths that should be addressed in the program.
Play video starting at ::11 and follow transcript0:11
One way to address the happy and the sad paths is through the use of scenarios.
Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17
Scenarios are similar to storyboards in that they illustrate sequences of interactions. But they have quite a bit more detail. Instead of just little stick figures, you're actually defining who, what, when, where, and how things are interacting.
Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36
Answering those questions becomes a scenario. The scenario shows how all of the system components are interacting to accomplish the implicit objectives and determine how the implicit objective can be met.
Play video starting at ::54 and follow transcript0:54
You also discover, as you go through the scenarios, how you would hit the sad paths, like I can't find the movie or I pulled the dollar away from my friend and they fell into the street and died.
Play video starting at :1:8 and follow transcript1:08
Ugh.
Play video starting at :1:12 and follow transcript1:12
When we create scenarios, creating scenarios is made simpler by discussing the concrete examples of real life interaction sequences.
Play video starting at :1:22 and follow transcript1:22
From these interactions, you can gather concrete examples of hypothetical interaction sequences. You can ask specific questions about them. From that, you can also elicit underlying objectives.
Play video starting at :1:36 and follow transcript1:36
By that I mean, you can say, well, why would you do that?
Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40
Or why could that happen?
Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42
All of these ideas can later be pulled together to generalize the interactions into models of the desired behavior.
Play video starting at :1:51 and follow transcript1:51
Let's say that in our meeting scheduler, the meeting initiator asks that the scheduler plan a meeting with some particular date range.
Play video starting at :2:2 and follow transcript2:02
This request includes a list of desired participants.
Play video starting at :2:6 and follow transcript2:06
The scheduler goes and checks to see that first, the initiator is allowed to create a meeting and that their request is valid. So for example, you can't say that you want the meeting to start in January of 2017 and end in December 2016. That would be a faulty date range. The scheduler should be checking that. As an additional requirement, one of the participant returns their constraints. Then, the scheduler will validate those constraints. Just like in making sure it's not looking at invalid dates, it does that for both the initiator and the participant. Additionally, when the participant returns their constraints, the scheduler will validate them. Just like they did for the initiator of the meeting, we also check to see that the participants' dates are also correct.
Play video starting at :3:9 and follow transcript3:09
In this confirmation, the constraints are confirmed as being received.
Play video starting at :3:15 and follow transcript3:15
Once all of the valid constraints are received, the scheduler determines a meeting date and a location that will fit the constraints. We all know this never really goes well. There are going to be conflicts.
Play video starting at :3:30 and follow transcript3:30
But these are the key goals.
Play video starting at :3:33 and follow transcript3:33
Finally, the scheduled meeting date and the location are notified to the initiator and also to all the invited participants. Again, this is the happy path where everything goes well.
Play video starting at :3:49 and follow transcript3:49
In scenarios, we have positives and negatives.
Play video starting at :3:53 and follow transcript3:53
Positive scenarios are what should happen in terms of the one or more behaviors that the system should cover.
Play video starting at :4:2 and follow transcript4:02
Negatives, you can think of as counter examples. Negatives illustrate what may not happen.
Play video starting at :4:10 and follow transcript4:10
These are behaviors that the system should include, but they should deal with them. This relates to our sad paths.
Play video starting at :4:21 and follow transcript4:21
In our scenario example, what are these?
Play video starting at :4:25 and follow transcript4:25
What might a negative scenario look like?
Play video starting at :4:28 and follow transcript4:28
Well, one sad path might be that the participant returns a list of constraints that covers all of the dates within the prescribed date range, but they mess it up and go a couple days later too.
Play video starting at :4:44 and follow transcript4:44
Is that really a sad path? They're saying they're available.
Play video starting at :4:48 and follow transcript4:48
So what do you do?
Play video starting at :4:51 and follow transcript4:51
As another example, let's say that the scheduler forwards the message of confirming the dates to all participants, asking for alternative constraints with some extended date range.
Play video starting at :5:7 and follow transcript5:07
In this case, while this is not a sad path, it is a negative scenario.
Play video starting at :5:14 and follow transcript5:14
Because we have an implicit requirement that participant behaviors are not disclosed to others.
Play video starting at :5:21 and follow transcript5:21
If I say, nope, I can't be there Friday, you shouldn't know that.
Play video starting at :5:28 and follow transcript5:28
So this is an example of a negative scenario that isn't a sad path, as sad paths are described in the software development life cycle. However, it is not allowed by the system.
Play video starting at :5:42 and follow transcript5:42
That's why we define it as the negative scenario.
Play video starting at :5:46 and follow transcript5:46
Within the program, that functionality should just not exist. We do need to think about it though, so that, that would provide an error if it occurred, maybe. Do we need to code that in or not?
Play video starting at :6:2 and follow transcript6:02
Balancing act.
Play video starting at :6:5 and follow transcript6:05
So scenarios can also be defined as normal or abnormal.
Play video starting at :6:11 and follow transcript6:11
Normal scenarios capture the course of the action as it is expected. These overlap very closely with the positive scenarios.
Play video starting at :6:21 and follow transcript6:21
Abnormal behavior scenarios show the desired interaction under exceptional circumstances.
Play video starting at :6:28 and follow transcript6:28
If you work in an agile environment, all of these terms end up being confused.
Play video starting at :6:34 and follow transcript6:34
We confuse normal, abnormal, positive, negative, happy path, sad path.
Play video starting at :6:42 and follow transcript6:42
Be careful when you are hearing these terms because we don't always use them in very firm ways.
Play video starting at :6:50 and follow transcript6:50
Sad paths overall are covering the abnormal paths. Negative scenarios can usually be considered as sad paths too.
Play video starting at :7:2 and follow transcript7:02
In this example of an abnormal scenario, where that abnormal scenario is that the participant constraints are not valid, that would be a sad path. You wouldn't want to raise an exception. You wouldn't want to just throw up an error. You wouldn't want the program to crash. You need this abnormal scenario to make sure that it's accounted for.
Play video starting at :7:26 and follow transcript7:26
However, this is not a negative scenario, despite the terminology. It sounds negative. But negative scenarios are policies or ideas that are not allowed to happen. This scenario is abnormal in that it's allowed, given the policies and expectations, but we do not expect it.

###  2.2. <a name='ScenarioAdvantagesandDisadvantages'></a>Scenario Advantages and Disadvantages
0:00
Scenarios are extremely useful, in that they are concrete and they support a narrative style of description. Just like the drawing of a storyboard, scenarios are easy to use and help to build a shared understanding of how the components are currently interacting, or how they should or should not act.
Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22
Scenarios are also useful when validating requirements.
Play video starting at ::26 and follow transcript0:26
They help us find counterexamples when we're going through and trying to verify the behavioral requirements.
Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34
When you go to write your requirements document, they also help you and your developers to write test cases.
Play video starting at ::42 and follow transcript0:42
These test cases are acceptance tests that we formed from the requirements.
Play video starting at ::49 and follow transcript0:49
Acceptance tests you can think of as, if I fulfill these task cases and they pass, then this ties to these particular requirements.
Play video starting at :1:1 and follow transcript1:01
If those requirements are fulfilled, get paid, contract fulfilled. Obviously, that is a very simple model of what actually happens, but that's the idea that we're going for with an acceptance test.
Play video starting at :1:19 and follow transcript1:19
This helps us to see properties and models.
Play video starting at :1:25 and follow transcript1:25
Note that there is going to likely be a common tutorial explosion problem.
Play video starting at :1:30 and follow transcript1:30
Stakeholders may state their scenarios at different levels of granularity.
Play video starting at :1:36 and follow transcript1:36
And sorry, but it's going to be up to you to decide at what level of granularity you need to rate the requirements to allow the development team to really get what they need.
Play video starting at :1:51 and follow transcript1:51
At the end of the day, if you hand them a software requirement specification, or an SRS, the developers should be able to go, okay and create it. We also might make scenarios that show some desired behavior, but that desired behavior may not necessarily be required in the product.
Play video starting at :2:14 and follow transcript2:14
When we come up with scenarios like that, you have to do a big balancing act again.
Play video starting at :2:20 and follow transcript2:20
We're going to talk about some of these type of scenarios and how we can deal with them in risk analysis.
Play video starting at :2:29 and follow transcript2:29
Lastly, you'll discover implicit properties as you create scenarios where those implicit properties need to be made explicit.
Play video starting at :2:40 and follow transcript2:40
A lot of times no one realizes that they do need to be made explicit.
Play video starting at :2:45 and follow transcript2:45
If you discover these properties, these are known as known unknowns. Given known unknowns, you need to ask or go ahead and make assumptions.
Play video starting at :3: and follow transcript3:00
For example, if you're listing a bunch of movies on a website. Let's say the customer says that they want to see the movies within their filter.
Play video starting at :3:11 and follow transcript3:11
So you find their movies, you put them up, then there's the question of, well, do you sort by date, by name, by genre?
Play video starting at :3:20 and follow transcript3:20
Or what should be automatically done?
Play video starting at :3:23 and follow transcript3:23
You could ask the customer. You realize that you don't know how to immediately to answer this question. Given that that example is a very small question, it's more likely that you're going to just make an assumption, which should be documented.
Play video starting at :3:38 and follow transcript3:38
Whatever decisions you make, whatever specifications that you write, all of these should be documented within your software requirements specification, or the SRS.
Play video starting at :3:51 and follow transcript3:51
Implicit requirements can also be unknown unknowns, take a guess what that means.
Play video starting at :3:59 and follow transcript3:59
In the related reading, you'll find a paper explaining the issues between known knowns, known unknowns, unknown knowns and unknown unknowns.
Play video starting at :4:14 and follow transcript4:14
That's always a mouthful to say.
Play video starting at :4:17 and follow transcript4:17
Many of the unknown unknowns catch us in software development because issues such as security are often put on the side. And by put on the side, I mean, nobody thinks about it. We just kind of assume it is an issue, but we don't realize it's an issue. And there are many unknown unknowns that end up coming up along the software development process, where you say, crud, I forgot about security.
Play video starting at :4:47 and follow transcript4:47
So we run into these challenges.
Play video starting at :4:51 and follow transcript4:51
I hope you enjoy the reading of that paper.
Play video starting at :4:54 and follow transcript4:54
Note that requirements documents don't usually include design properties at the UI or the architectural levels. They also don't go into algorithm decisions, unless that is for some reason set by the domain.
Play video starting at :5:9 and follow transcript5:09
We're keeping everything high level.
Play video starting at :5:13 and follow transcript5:13
However, it's important to identify security concerns in your scenarios, at least a little bit beyond, we need a login to our website.
Play video starting at :5:24 and follow transcript5:24
We can clarify that by asking things like, what information is needed for a login? Is there a password? If there's a password, should it be encrypted?
Play video starting at :5:35 and follow transcript5:35
Should the user be able to see their own password or reveal it? Should it be saved?
Play video starting at :5:42 and follow transcript5:42
When it gets sent to a database, is that encrypted or can people on the other end actually see it? And this is just a small, very simple example.
Play video starting at :5:55 and follow transcript5:55
Another example would be if you had credit card information.
Play video starting at :5:59 and follow transcript5:59
Is that credit card information being saved, by you as the developers, you as the team?
Play video starting at :6:7 and follow transcript6:07
Is it being shipped off to somewhere else like PayPal or some other credit servicing site? The question of if it's passed to something else, how is it interpreted?
Play video starting at :6:22 and follow transcript6:22
Likely, we are not going to come up with these questions right at the beginning.
Play video starting at :6:28 and follow transcript6:28
If we're asking the question of, how is something going to be passed? Is it going to be encrypted? Well, what encryption algorithms are we going to use?
Play video starting at :6:39 and follow transcript6:39
Generally, we do not deal with that in a requirements document. That's left for design and coding.
Play video starting at :6:47 and follow transcript6:47
However, it maybe a consideration as you consider APIs that might be used or alternatives that you want to discuss within your document.
Play video starting at :6:59 and follow transcript6:59
With each requirement, especially the really challenging ones, you'll go through and ask, what are the other alternatives? What are the risks? You don't necessarily need to know all of the details, but you need to be aware of them, and document why you made the decisions that you did.

###  2.4. <a name='ReadingRequirementsElicitation:TowardstheUnknownUnknowns'></a>Reading Requirements Elicitation: Towards the Unknown Unknowns
[LINK](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Alistair_Sutcliffe/publication/261044621_Requirements_elicitation_Towards_the_unknown_unknowns/links/561fd72a08ae93a5c92435c0.pdf)

Sutcliffe, Alistair, and Pete Sawyer. "Requirements elicitation: Towards the unknown unknowns." Requirements Engineering Conference (RE), 2013 21st IEEE International. IEEE, 2013.

Let's face it- there is SO much we don't know.  As customers, we don't know what to tell that would be useful.  As requirements engineers, we don't know what to ask.  This leads us to the "unknown unknowns."  This paper highlights these differences between known knowns and unknown unknowns- and asks the question of how do we figure out unknown unknowns?? It's a frustrating process, and we don't really have an answer.  However, this paper gives some suggestions to get started.  What are your unknown unknowns?? (heh- you don't know! Thus the challenge)

Paper Abstract: "Requirements elicitation research is reviewed using a framework categorising the relative ‘knowness’ of requirements specification and Common Ground discourse theory. The main contribution of this survey is to review requirements elicitation from the perspective of this framework and propose a road map of research to tackle outstanding elicitation problems involving tacit knowledge. Elicitation techniques (interviews, scenarios, prototypes, etc.) are investigated, followed by representations, models and support tools. The survey results suggest that elicitation techniques appear to be relatively mature, although new areas of creative requirements are emerging. Representations and models are also well established although there is potential for more sophisticated modelling of domain knowledge. While model-checking tools continue to become more elaborate, more growth is apparent in NL tools such as text mining and IR which help to categorize and disambiguate requirements. Social collaboration support is a relatively new area that facilitates categorisation, prioritisation and matching collections of requirements for product line versions. A road map for future requirements elicitation research is proposed investigating the prospects for techniques, models and tools in green-field domains where few solutions exist, contrasted with brown-field domains where collections of requirements and products already exist. The paper concludes with remarks on the possibility of elicitation tackling the most difficult question of ‘unknown unknown’ requirements."

##  3. <a name='MockupsandPrototypes'></a>Mockups and Prototypes

###  3.1. <a name='MockupsandPrototypes-1'></a>Mockups and Prototypes

0:00
In order to help yourself and the stakeholders. Another way that you can express your ideas other than storyboarding or scenarios is to create prototypes, mockups, or maybe small working systems in order to display the ideas that you have.
Play video starting at ::18 and follow transcript0:18
Stakeholders often find it difficult to process text descriptions of a future system and really think about how that system would tie into future working conditions.
Play video starting at ::29 and follow transcript0:29
These physical artifacts can help. A functional prototype shows the aspects of the software functionality.
Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36
UI prototypes or user interface prototypes show dynamic aspects of user software interaction.
Play video starting at ::43 and follow transcript0:43
You can also sort of see these in our storyboards.
Play video starting at ::48 and follow transcript0:48
Given the meeting scheduler example, one prototype might show a tentative process for initiating a meeting and asking the participants for their constraints. But that scenario, or that storyboard, might leave out the requirements that are constraining their search of the scheduler to the optimal schedules.
Play video starting at :1:12 and follow transcript1:12
When validating the optimal schedule, we're validating the process and trying to figure out how this all really goes together. It gives information that allows us to elicit further requirements.
Play video starting at :1:26 and follow transcript1:26
Another example is explaining formats for the data entry of the system.
Play video starting at :1:32 and follow transcript1:32
Also, what kinds of messages do the initiator and the participants get?
Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40
How is it displayed? What are the dialogue patterns?
Play video starting at :1:44 and follow transcript1:44
In our meeting scheduler, you might show the format and dialogue required for submitting participant constraints to the scheduler. This can make it easier to elicit and validate the overall usability requirements. For example, calendar. You can click on the calendar.
Play video starting at :2:3 and follow transcript2:03
Most of us understand that. But we shouldn't assume that they want a calendar right up there, maybe they want drop-down boxes.
Play video starting at :2:12 and follow transcript2:12
There are dangers to prototypes and mockups, which I'm going to discuss in just a minute.
Play video starting at :2:19 and follow transcript2:19
In the prototyping cycle, you just keep repeating.
Play video starting at :2:24 and follow transcript2:24
Build a prototype version from the selected requirements that you have.
Play video starting at :2:29 and follow transcript2:29
Show the prototype executions. Get your feedback from the stakeholders. Update the requirements from the feedback.
Play video starting at :2:38 and follow transcript2:38
And then keep going until the prototype gets full agreement from the stakeholders.
Play video starting at :2:44 and follow transcript2:44
Prototypes are often used in agile and spiral model settings.
Play video starting at :2:49 and follow transcript2:49
Agile development methods, though, emphasize on having really working products at every single stage, at every single iteration. Not just a model of what should be happening. So there's the difference.
Play video starting at :3:5 and follow transcript3:05
Prototypes can come in many forms. They help us to understand the implications of some of the requirements. They also help us to clarify, to turn inadequate requirements into adequate ones, and to elicit some of those hidden requirements, especially the known unknowns.
Play video starting at :3:25 and follow transcript3:25
We'll also start discovering the unknown unknowns as we move through.
Play video starting at :3:31 and follow transcript3:31
Prototypes can also be kept for things like user training before a final product is available or to simulate the unfinished parts during integration level testing.
Play video starting at :3:42 and follow transcript3:42
Remember, though, that prototypes cannot cover all aspects of the product. They're going to leave some functionalities aside.
Play video starting at :3:50 and follow transcript3:50
Requirements about performance, cost, reliability, interoperability, and often security
Play video starting at :4: and follow transcript4:00
just get ignored until way later in the process, making them even more costly. Now, one large risk in prototyping is that customers may think it's real.
Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12
This is very dangerous.
Play video starting at :4:15 and follow transcript4:15
For example, I was working with a company and we made a prototype that was just a bunch of interactive PDFs. It kind of looked like a website. You could click, it'd go to another page. There was very little, if anything, really, going on in the background, other than links from page to page.
Play video starting at :4:36 and follow transcript4:36
We presented this product, well, product, it's actually a prototype, to several stakeholders. And all of them reacted as though they thought it was a real full product. We had it on an iPad. And they had the iPad and they click, click, click, click, this is great! Well, why can't I enter in this information? Why didn't my information save if I put it there? It's not real.
Play video starting at :5:6 and follow transcript5:06
Our goal was to ask if we had all of the right fields and try to get the general flow idea.
Play video starting at :5:14 and follow transcript5:14
But just with how we presented it, it looked too good. They thought it was there and was working.
Play video starting at :5:22 and follow transcript5:22
And then they said, well, why do you need another three years to build this?
Play video starting at :5:27 and follow transcript5:27
We were so many years from building a fully working product, and we kind of got their expectations too high by making the prototype too real looking.
Play video starting at :5:37 and follow transcript5:37
We need to be careful of this, especially in requirements documents, because we want our requirements documents to look good.
Play video starting at :5:48 and follow transcript5:48
However, don't make diagrams or pictures or screenshots that are real, that aren't. Prototypes can set those expectations too high. In requirements documents, it's actually safer to make them quick and kind of dirty.
Play video starting at :6:9 and follow transcript6:09
They're hard to convert into something useful. But you get a general idea and you know where you actually stand on the product and can get opinions.
Play video starting at :6:22 and follow transcript6:22
Frequent prototyping, however, has been shown to decrease the requirements-code mismatch.
Play video starting at :6:29 and follow transcript6:29
This is because the prototypes can be accepted by the users. And you can walk through and give different representation for the developers.
Play video starting at :6:37 and follow transcript6:37
From the representations, developers can convert from visual and story-based designs and then go actually into working software.
Play video starting at :6:47 and follow transcript6:47
Because of this, prototypes are wonderful.
Play video starting at :6:51 and follow transcript6:51
Remember that you are making your prototypes, or mock-ups, to lead to more elicitation. Learn about the system as it is.
Play video starting at :7:2 and follow transcript7:02
Once you know about the system as it is, move into the system to be.

