<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Discovering operating systems](#Discoveringoperatingsystems)
	* 1.1. [Operating systems genesis: definition, services (files, memory, processes), key dates](#Operatingsystemsgenesis:definitionservicesfilesmemoryprocesseskeydates)
	* 1.2. [UNIX genesis: MAC projet @ MIT, MULTICS, Thompson & Ritchie](#UNIXgenesis:MACprojetMITMULTICSThompsonRitchie)
	* 1.3. [Linux genesis and history: GNU, Stallman, GPL, Linus Torvals, Linux](#Linuxgenesisandhistory:GNUStallmanGPLLinusTorvalsLinux)
* 2. [Manipulating the command line interface](#Manipulatingthecommandlineinterface)
	* 2.1. [Command line interface, prompt, command options and files data, command cal as example](#Commandlineinterfacepromptcommandoptionsandfilesdatacommandcalasexample)
	* 2.2. [First commands: echo 'hello world', date, cal, history, whoami, hostname, uptime, clear, command not found, man, command options](#Firstcommands:echohelloworlddatecalhistorywhoamihostnameuptimeclearcommandnotfoundmancommandoptions)
	* 2.3. [Interactive commands: top, htop, nano, vim, how to get back to the prompt](#Interactivecommands:tophtopnanovimhowtogetbacktotheprompt)
	* 2.4. [Play with commands: hello, worm, firework, rain, hanoi](#Playwithcommands:hellowormfireworkrainhanoi)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->
##  1. <a name='Discoveringoperatingsystems'></a>Discovering operating systems

###  1.1. <a name='Operatingsystemsgenesis:definitionservicesfilesmemoryprocesseskeydates'></a>Operating systems genesis: definition, services (files, memory, processes), key dates

 - Unix has been around quite a bit longer than Linux. But these two operating systems are indeed related. 
   - Linux is a Unix-like operating system that is open source. This means that the Linux kernel, created by Linus Torvalds and enhanced and expanded upon by thousands of programmers, is available to the world for free. 
 - An operating system is an intermediary between the hardware- memory, hard disk, processor, Wi-Fi network cards, et cetera- and the applications that we all use. 
   - Indeed, you as the user use the services rendered by applications. 
   - Applications use the services provided by the operating system. 
   - And the operating system exploits the hardware resources that are at its disposal to render these services to the applications. 
 - Examples of services provided by the operating system. 
   - File management. That is, managing the logical tree structure of files and their physical layout on the storage device, also known as the hard drive. 
   - Memory management. Memory can be shared between several running processes. 
   - Also management of running applications. We are talking about running processes. You can run an application, kill a running application, et cetera. 
   - Management of inputs and outputs. For example, network cards to access the internet, sound cards, video cards, printers, et cetera. 
 - the history of the operating system. 
   - In the mid-1940s, the first computers were built using vacuum tubes. Vacuum tubes are evacuated glass containers that can control electric current and can therefore function as on-off switches. These tubes are rather large. And each of these first computers used quite a few of them, resulting in huge machines that filled entire rooms while performing more slowly than a modern hand-held calculator. 
   - Programming of these machines had to be done manually by moving around tubes. And input-output was very limited. In fact, the programmer was also in charge of operating the machine via direct interaction, which meant a lot of heavy lifting. So in fact, the designer of the computer was also the builder of the computer, and at the same time the programmer as well as the operator. 
   - Everything changed with the invention of the transistor. At the same time, this marks the beginning of operating systems via the appearance of punch cards. Punch cards are cards with holes, punches, placed in specific locations so as to encode computer programs and data that can be loaded via the computer's punch card reader into the computer's memory. Punch cards can also be used as computer output. A separation of roles emerged. A programmer produced punch cards-- programs that input data-- and an operator physically loaded these cards into the computer and unloaded the computer's output. 
   - That is when the operating system was invented to manage the memory, the processes, programs loaded while running, and these punch cards, inputs and outputs, reading punch cards, writing the results. 
     - We can therefore say that it was in the mid-1960s that operating systems were invented. 


###  1.2. <a name='UNIXgenesis:MACprojetMITMULTICSThompsonRitchie'></a>UNIX genesis: MAC projet @ MIT, MULTICS, Thompson & Ritchie

- the genesis of Unix, the most advanced operating system of its time that introduced many concepts still used in all modern operating systems.
- The era of modern computers emerged with the appearance of integrated circuits and magnetic disks. Rather than using individual transistors connected by wires to control the flow of electrons, integrated circuits combine, or integrate, electronic circuits into a single device. 
- This was also the time when we started to see families of compatible computers, such as the IBM System/360, a system announced by IBM in 1964 in which a clear distinction between architecture and implementation was made, allowing for the release of various compatible designs at different prices. 
- In addition, this marks the time when the first ideas relating to Unix were born. 
  - It all started with the MAC project, project on mathematics and computation, founded by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and funded by the US military research funding agency ARPA and the US National Science Foundation. 
  - The main goal of this large scale project was to realize a timesharing system that would allow a wide community of users to simultaneously access the hardware and software resources of a single computer from multiple locations. Six years after its inception, project `MAC`, jointly with `Bell` Laboratories and General Electric, developed `MULTICS`, the Multiplexed Information and Computing Service. 
  - This service was no longer just about computer resource timesharing, but evolved to also incorporate features such as file sharing, file management, and system security. `Multiplexing` is a technique of *sending multiple pieces of information over a communication link at the same time in the form of a single complex signal*. 
  - `Multiplexing` makes it possible to share the same resource between several users. 
  - General Electric's contribution to the MULTICS project was to *design and build the underlying machine*, whereas Bell Labs took on the design and writing of the operating system code, in particular the aspects related to remote access by multiple users. The realization of this ambitious project proved much more difficult than expected.

   - The system only began to operate in 1969 on the GE-645 computer designed by General Electric. But its performance was far from the originally set targets. Bell Labs pulled out of the project that same year. 
   - Following the withdrawal of Bell Labs from the MULTICS project, some Bell Labs engineers working on the project, led by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie, decided to pursue an alternative approach to the system, which they considered to be cumbersome and complex. Using their experience, they set out to realize a minimal system on a small machine. Well, small. Everything is relative. Look at the picture. 
   - In `1969`, having access to a little-used DAC PD7, they began the development of a single-user operating system on their own account and without any support from Bell Labs. As a pun on MULTICS, they called the system `UNICS`. 
   - In `1970`, the system changed from single user to `multiple users`. 
   - And the spelling of its name morphed to `Unix`. At the time, the system was written in the `B programming language` invented by **Ken Thompson**. 
   - In `1971`, **Dennis Ritchie** improved his colleague Ken's language and called it the `new B`. 
   - By `1972`, the changes to the B language became so significant that Dennis Ritchie renamed his new language the `C` language. Ken jumped on the opportunity and rewrote all of the code making up the Unix operating system in this improved C programming language. 
   - After two to three years of work, Ken sent the C source code of the Unix operating system to universities and research centers for educational purposes all around the world. I remember a professor at my university saying that he received a magnetic tape of the C source code of the Unix operating system in 1976. He had difficulties with the customs at the French border, since nobody knew what these big magnetic tapes were. 
   - From `1975` on, a very active community emerged around Unix and the C programming language, with the other notable developers of Unix being Douglas McElroy-- who is now right here at Dartmouth-- Joseph Ossanna, and Rudd Canaday. Various different versions of Unix saw the light of the day, in particular the various machines constructed by different computer builders. 
   - In `1978`, Dennis Ritchie-- jointly with his pedagogically-inclined colleague, `Brian Kernighan`-- wrote the book The C Programming Language. This was the boom of popularity of Unix and the C programming language. And a few years later, in `1983` when I was born, Ken and Dennis received the highest distinction in the computer science field for this invention, the Turing Prize. 
   - The basics of `Unix` are ubiquitous today. Did you know that the `Mac` operating system installed on Apple computers is a derivative of Unix, as is the iOS operating system for iPhone, iPad, the Android system for Google phones, and even the Linux system installed on the vast majority of today's service and connected objects?

###  1.3. <a name='Linuxgenesisandhistory:GNUStallmanGPLLinusTorvalsLinux'></a>Linux genesis and history: GNU, Stallman, GPL, Linus Torvals, Linux

- By the early 1980s, the Unix operating system had been largely adopted by universities and research centers which led to further adoption by many startups and companies. 
- In 1983, Unix inventors Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson received the Turing Award for their invention. And that same year, Richard Stallman of MIT launched the GNU Project. 
  - GNU is a recursive acronym, referring to itself, that stands for GNU is Not Unix. The GNU Project is an open and free, collaborative project to develop and provide software compatible with Unix. The big difference between the GNU Project and Unix is that Unix is owned by Bell Labs, which sells licenses for use or modification, while the GNU Project is free, and anyone can use or modify the entire project. 
  - Richard Stallman is a strong advocate for free and open source software. 
- In 1989, he conceived of the GNU General Public License, which aims to preserve the freedom to use, study, modify, and distribute software and its derivative versions. 
- By 1990, the GNU Project included a lot of software already, text editors, a graphical user interface similar to Windows, libraries, the GNU C Compiler- GCC-- a C language compiler, et cetera. 
- The problem was that one had to use this free software on the Unix operating system that itself is proprietary and not open or free. This is where Linus Torvalds, a 21-year-old Finnish computer science student at the University of Helsinki, intervened. He was frustrated by these proprietary licenses that limited the use of the operating system. 
- On August 25, 1991, he sent a message to the community that started like this, "Hi, everyone. I am doing a free operating system. It's just a hobby. It will not be as big and as professional as the GNU Project."
- This project, which later became the Linux kernel, was written specifically to be independent of an operating system, and was meant to run on Linus Torvalds' PC, with an 83.86 processor. Development was done using the GNU C Compiler, which to this day is still the main choice for compiling Linux. 
- Just as in the case of the GNU Project, the community formed. And developers of the GNU Project quickly integrated free software to run on the Linux kernel, which itself is also free. 
- In 1992, the first Linux distributions were released and consisted of the free Linux operating system and a collection of free GNU Project software tools, such as editors, libraries, compilers, et cetera. 
- By 1993, there were already more than 100 developers from around the world who worked on modifying and improving Linux. 1993 was also the year of some very popular Linux distributions, for example Debian. 
- By the end of the '90s, the major computer manufacturers Dell, IBM, and HP announced compatibility of their hardware with Linux. During the 2000s, Linux was deployed more and more as the operating system that runs web servers. 
- In the 2010s, Linux and Unix-based operating systems became the most widely used systems on internet servers, taking about 70% of the market share, and smartphones, around 90%, since the Android operating system is based on Linux and iOS is based on Unix. 
- These operating systems also started dominating supercomputers, for example for scientific calculations or for the film and special effects industry, around 99% of the market share. Linux and Unix-based operating systems can further be found in game consoles, for example Playstation, internet boxes, Wi-Fi routers, and connected objects such as internet-connected watches. 
- The Linux operating system or other Unix derivatives have become a part of many aspects of our everyday life.

##  2. <a name='Manipulatingthecommandlineinterface'></a>Manipulating the command line interface

###  2.1. <a name='Commandlineinterfacepromptcommandoptionsandfilesdatacommandcalasexample'></a>Command line interface, prompt, command options and files data, command cal as example
- A **command line interface**, sometimes abbreviated `CLI`, is a human machine interface in which communication between the user and the computer takes place in text mode. 
- The user types a command-- that is, they type of the text using the keyboard to ask the computer to perform an operation. The computer then displays text corresponding to the result of the execution of the command or text corresponding to the questions that an invoked software application asks of the user. 
- A **command line interface** can also be used to launch the execution of various software applications that use a command interpreter as well as for dialogue with a user. It is at the core of the interaction between a user and the computer or any other computing equipment. 
- When a command line interface is ready to receive a command from the user. It indicates this by displaying a command prompt. 
- This prompt typically consists of some information at the beginning of the line, usually the user's account name, or the computer name, or the current working directory or the date. And it ends with a well-known character, often the `dollar`, or the `pound #` sign or the `greater than >` sign. This prompt lets the user know that the system is ready to receive a command. 
- One of the features of the Unix operating system and, by inheritance, the Linux operating system is that from its earliest beginnings on, it has had at its disposal more than 100 software applications, often performing very simple tasks and, most importantly, all usable from the command line. 
  - The elementary commands are of the form `command options files_or_data` knowing that the options and the files or data are **optional**. 
- The command appearing at the beginning of the line is almost always the name of a software application. This can be an operating system command or another software application written by a user, often in the C programming language. 
- A command line option modifies the execution of a command. The effect of the option depends on the command. Generally, the options immediately follow the name of the command on the command line and they are separated by spaces. 
- Finally, the files or data are the program entries. For example, if you want to run the application that displays a calendar in text mode, you type the command cal and press the Enter key. And here's the result. If we add the minus j option to it, it displays the calendar in Julian days. That's the number of days elapsed since January 1st, so we type the command cal minus j, press the Enter key and here's the calendar in Julian days. 

###  2.2. <a name='Firstcommands:echohelloworlddatecalhistorywhoamihostnameuptimeclearcommandnotfoundmancommandoptions'></a>First commands: echo 'hello world', date, cal, history, whoami, hostname, uptime, clear, command not found, man, command options

- Commands:
  - `whoami` show the user's name
  - `whoami --help` shows a little help about `whoami`
  - `id`: shows the user, group ids
  - `logname` pretty similar to `whoami`
  - `echo` prints text
  - `echo $0` prints the shell which interprets the commands.
  - `hostname` get or set hostname (name of the computer)
  - `uname`, prints system information
  - `uname -a` print all information
  - `history`  last 14 commands used
  - `uptime` how many minutes the pc is on.
  - `cal` calendar
  - `date` date and time
  - `man <command>` manual of the command
    - `q` to exit from command.

###  2.3. <a name='Interactivecommands:tophtopnanovimhowtogetbacktotheprompt'></a>Interactive commands: top, htop, nano, vim, how to get back to the prompt
- Commands:
  - `top`: provides a view of process activity in real time. Read the status of all processes from /proc each SECONDS and display a screenful of them.
    - use `q` to exit
    - to exit it also works:`^C` means `Ctrl+c` 
    - `PID` process identifier
  - `htop`: top improved... `F10` to quit. `q` and `^C` also works
  - `nano`: text editor
    - `ctrl+G` help
  - `vim`: `:q + enter` to exit
  

###  2.4. <a name='Playwithcommands:hellowormfireworkrainhanoi'></a>Play with commands: hello, worm, firework, rain, hanoi
- Commands:
  - `hello`
  - `worm`
  - `firework`
  - `rain`
  - `hanoi`