<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Discovering the file system](#Discoveringthefilesystem)
	* 1.1. [Filesystem](#Filesystem)
	* 1.2. [pwd, cd, ls, absolute path, relative path part1](#pwdcdlsabsolutepathrelativepathpart1)
	* 1.3. [pwd, cd, ls, absolute path, relative path part2](#pwdcdlsabsolutepathrelativepathpart2)
* 2. [Creating and deleting files and folders](#Creatinganddeletingfilesandfolders)
	* 2.1. [Touch, rm, names with spaces](#Touchrmnameswithspaces)
	* 2.2. [cat less](#catless)
	* 2.3. [mkdir, rm -r](#mkdirrm-r)
* 3. [Unblocking yourself in the command line](#Unblockingyourselfinthecommandline)
	* 3.1. [Unblock yourself in the command line](#Unblockyourselfinthecommandline)
	* 3.2. [Modifying, moving and copying files and folders](#Modifyingmovingandcopyingfilesandfolders)
	* 3.3. [mv: rename and move](#mv:renameandmove)
	* 3.4. [cp, cp -r](#cpcp-r)
* 4. [Searching files and folders](#Searchingfilesandfolders)
	* 4.1. [Find locate](#Findlocate)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='Discoveringthefilesystem'></a>Discovering the file system

###  1.1. <a name='Filesystem'></a>Filesystem

- One role of the operating system is to manage files using a file management system, or file system. 
- not so long ago, programs and data used to be stored on punch cards. In this picture, each little box contains 2,000 punch cards, with each card holding up to 80 characters. The boxes themselves are grouped into pallets, each of which holds 45 boxes. The total number of characters stored on the punch cards shown in this picture it's about 4.3 billion, about the same amount of data that a four-gigabyte flash drive can store. 
- You can imagine that the abilities to store programs on disk drives revolutionized the world of programming. Very quickly, one could store hundreds, thousands, or even millions of files on these drives without having to pick up thousands of boxes and search for a program. 
- For the user, *a file system is best visualized as a tree*. Files are grouped into directories, or folders-- a concept used by most operating systems. These directories contain further files and/or other directories. So there's a root directory and then a number of subdirectories. Such an organization generates a hierarchy of directories and files organized into a tree. 
- On `Unix/Linux`, the root of the file system is denoted `slash`. The root folder would, therefore, be `slash`. A folder and a subfolder will be denoted slash folder slash subfolder. A file in that subfolder will be denoted slash folder slash subfolder slash file. 
- How do we organize the hierarchy of directories and files? From the user's point of view, well, it's up to them to decide how to organize their own files and folders. 
- The operating system itself has lots of files to keep track of, as well -- utility programs, applications, methods to communicate with devices, et cetera. 
- In August 1993, the process of standardizing the file system hierarchy began. `FSSTND`, Filesystem Standard, **is a standard specific to the Filesystem hierarchy to GNU Linux**. 
- The vast majority of GNU Linux distributions do not strictly follow this standardization format. We're going to give you some directory names that can be found in the vast majority of Linux distributions. 
- `/bin` This is the directory which contains all of the basic commands needed to start and use a minimal system. The directory name is derived from the abbreviation of binary. The executable file of an application is called a binary. 
- `/sbin` This directory contains commands-- executable, so binaries-- for the super user, also called root user. The root user is the administrator of the computer and has more powers than simple users. Superpowers, I would say. 
- `/home` Home contains all of user directories-- for example, `/home/smith` or `/home/remi` for me. 
- Then, there is `/root` This is the home directory of the root user, the user that has the superpowers. REMI : Next, we have /etc. This directory contains configuration files. In fact, it is the abbreviation of Editable Text Configuration. 
- Then comes `/lib` Here, the system stores software libraries required for executables in `/bin` and /`sbin`
- Also important is `/tmp` This directory is for temporary files. Sometimes, it is located in `/var/tmp` or `/run/tmp` It is usually emptied every time you restart the computer. So be careful. When you use this folder and restart your computer, everything will be destroyed inside. 
- And then there is `/var` This contains various files used by the operating system, such as databases, email boxes, and history. A log of what happened on the system is in `/var/logs`, for example. 
- Next, we have `/usr` USR is the acronym of Unix System Resources, and not user, as one might think. This folder contains some subfolders, similar to those present that the roots, but they are used to extend the system operations. For example, this folder includes `/usr/bin` That contains executable binaries that are not already present in `/bin` and, therefore, not essential to a minimal system. Or `/usr/lib` that contains those libraries that are not essential for a minimal system. 
- Finally, we have `/dev` This directory contains files, each of which corresponds, directly or indirectly, to a physical device. dev is a decent abbreviation for device. This is one of the strengths of Linux. It considers everything as a file, including devices, such as `/dev/printer`, `/dev/audio`, `/dev/mem` for memory, `/dev/networkcard`, and so forth. 
- Now that you know a lot more about the structure of the file system, let's explore what's inside.

###  1.2. <a name='pwdcdlsabsolutepathrelativepathpart1'></a>pwd, cd, ls, absolute path, relative path part1
- `pwd`: print working directory
- `ls`: list items at workinf directory
  - `ls -a`: list all items even `hiden` files (which starts with `.<name>`).
- `cd`: change directory
  - `cd` alone it returns to the `/home/user` folder. 
  - `.` is the current directory
  - `..` is the parent directory
  - `cd ..` go to the `parent directory`
    - So, `cd ../..`  is the parent of the parent of the directory
- If we are at `home/user` and we want to go to `/usr/bin/` we have two ways:
  - relative path: `cd ../../usr/bin`
  - absolute path: `cd /usr/bin/`


###  1.3. <a name='pwdcdlsabsolutepathrelativepathpart2'></a>pwd, cd, ls, absolute path, relative path part2
- `file`: to know the type of the file, it also gives some descriptions
  ``` 
  file program.c
  program.c: C source, ASCII text
  ```
- `realpath <file>` : shows the real path...
- `which`: show the path of the binaries that are installed in the system

##  2. <a name='Creatinganddeletingfilesandfolders'></a>Creating and deleting files and folders
- `touch <dummyWord>`: creates a file named `dummyWord`
  - `touch <dummyWord1> <dummyWord2>`: creates two files named `dummyWord1` and `dummyWord2`
  - `touch <dummyWord1>\ <dummyWord2>`: creates a file named `dummyWord1 dummyWord2`
  - `touch 'dummyWord1 dummyWord2'`: creates a file named `dummyWord1 dummyWord2`
- `rm <dummyWord>`: removes the file names `dummyWord`
- if we get stuck writing a name use `Ctrl+D`

###  2.1. <a name='Touchrmnameswithspaces'></a>Touch, rm, names with spaces

###  2.2. <a name='catless'></a>cat less

###  2.3. <a name='mkdirrm-r'></a>mkdir, rm -r

##  3. <a name='Unblockingyourselfinthecommandline'></a>Unblocking yourself in the command line

###  3.1. <a name='Unblockyourselfinthecommandline'></a>Unblock yourself in the command line

###  3.2. <a name='Modifyingmovingandcopyingfilesandfolders'></a>Modifying, moving and copying files and folders

###  3.3. <a name='mv:renameandmove'></a>mv: rename and move

###  3.4. <a name='cpcp-r'></a>cp, cp -r

##  4. <a name='Searchingfilesandfolders'></a>Searching files and folders

###  4.1. <a name='Findlocate'></a>Find locate