## 01_01 - Welcome

## 01_02 - Reactions to Steve Jobs' Vision for Apple

## 01_03 - The Business Case for Visionary Leadership

- the leader of a team, accounts for 31% of whether that team performs well or not. Of the 31%. 
- The most essential behaviors that enable teams to perform well:
   1. 6% create and communicate a vision that provides that team a sense of shared direction and meaning (over six percent). The MOST important.
   2. 6% structuring the team, roles, responsibilities, defining the intersections and points of interdependence. (how you design and manage teams). 
   3. 2-3% being able to show consideration for individual team members. (how you can motivate individual team members, by understanding their needs and their values).

- The ability as a leader to create and communicate a vision, is most important in times of uncertainty. 
- The ability to communicate a clear vision (The vision was the definition of where are we today and where are we going) enable managers in the organization to create very specific, but stretch goals, for their employees and their teams within the organization. 
   - Stretch goals, actually increased the confidence level of the employees within the organization. 
   - That confidence was a big predictor of how fast the firms ultimately were able to grow. 

The numbers you see here on the screen on the slide, those are the effect sizes of each component of the model on the next. So the ability to communicate a vision had a significant positive impact, on the presence of stretch goals in the organization. Which then had a significant positive impact, on how confident the employees were, which then ultimately had a significant and positive impact on the rate of growth for each of these firms. But the real question here, and this is the question that I have been exploring now for the last several years, is what are those successful CEOs, those successful entrepreneurs doing when they communicate a vision that ultimately spawns confidence and motivation among the employee. These CEOs, the entrepreneurs that are successful, what do their visions look like? 
The CEOs that are less successful, what do their visions look like, and what can we learn by comparing those? And that's the model that I'm gonna share with you in this course. It's beginning to unpack, what is an effective vision. What are the components? And I'm gonna give you a framework for understanding. What is the content of an effective vision? Ultimately, what is the vision? 
And then second, is how do you communicate it? So first, what is the vision, the content of that vision? And then second, how do you communicate that vision, in a way that compels people to want to be part of your team and your organization. 

## 01_04 - How a Clear Vision Creates Energy

## 01_05 - Why Do We Do What We Do?

## 01.06 - How Starting with WHY is Essential

## 01.07 - What Does Success Look Like?

## 01.08 - How Must We Act to Ensure Success?

## 01.09 - Does Jobs Answer the Three Questions?

## 01.10 - Part 1: Visionary Language

## 01.11 - Part 2: Visionary Language - Reflecting on Dead Poets Society

## 01.12 - Part 3: Visionary Language - MLK Speech

## Martin Luther King, Jr. "I Have a Dream..." Speech

## 01.13 - Developing a Vision for Your Team

## Steve Balmer 

## 01.14 - Verbals and Non-Verbals

## 01.15 - Part 2: Verbal and Non-Verbals

## 01.16 - How to Design your Office to Reinforce your Vision

## 01.17 - Learn to be Charismatic

## Michigan Model of Leadership

## 01.18 - Recap: Becoming a Visionary Leader
