<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Course Overview](#CourseOverview)
* 2. [Introduction to Computer Vision](#IntroductiontoComputerVision)
	* 2.1. [What you will learn](#Whatyouwilllearn)
	* 2.2. [What is Computer Vision](#WhatisComputerVision)
	* 2.3. [Applications industry](#Applicationsindustry)
* 3. [Applications of Computer Vision](#ApplicationsofComputerVision)
* 4. [Recent Research in Computer Vision](#RecentResearchinComputerVision)
* 5. [Brainstorming your Own Applications](#BrainstormingyourOwnApplications)
* 6. [Computer Vision in Action](#ComputerVisioninAction)
* 7. [Practice Assessment](#PracticeAssessment)
* 8. [Graded Quiz - Overview of Computer Vision and Its Applications](#GradedQuiz-OverviewofComputerVisionandItsApplications)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='CourseOverview'></a>Course Overview

- This Introduction to Computer Vision course is designed to introduce you to applying computer vision techniques to real-world problems. After completing this course, you will be able to apply image processing, traditional Machine Learning, and Deep Learning techniques to Computer Vision problems by integrating your solution into an application. You will also be able to deploy your computer vision application in the cloud and add them to your project portfolio.

- This course focuses on real-world application and utilizes a hands-on approach to learning. There are two types of hands-on labs in this course: labs that use Jupyter Notebooks and labs that use CV Studio, a free tool designed specifically to help you learn the basics of computer vision. Both types of labs are provided to you by the IBM Skills Network Labs environment. You will use Jupyter Notebooks to quickly get started on image processing, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, and Computer vision tasks using pre-processed datasets. CV Studio-based labs let you focus on the actual learning by making it easy to upload, label, train, and test images train your model, and most importantly, integrate your model into a real application and, optionally, deploy your application on the cloud for others to use.

##  2. <a name='IntroductiontoComputerVision'></a>Introduction to Computer Vision

###  2.1. <a name='Whatyouwilllearn'></a>What you will learn
- What is Computer Vision aka CV.
- Apply CV algorithms with Python and OpenCV.
- Create you custom classifiers.
- Build your own web app to classify images.

###  2.2. <a name='WhatisComputerVision'></a>What is Computer Vision
- Computers able to see and understand images
- 
###  2.3. <a name='Applicationsindustry'></a>Applications industry
- Big Impact in Automotive: Self-driving cars
- Food and beverage
- Manudfacturing
- Pharmaceutical
- Supply Chain
- Energy and Utilities
- Hospitality
- Life Sciences
- Human Resources
- Insurance

##  3. <a name='ApplicationsofComputerVision'></a>Applications of Computer Vision
- Tag in video scenes.
- Rust classifier for Civil Engineering and Insurance companies.

##  4. <a name='RecentResearchinComputerVision'></a>Recent Research in Computer Vision
- Detecting objects in an image
- Image to Image translation
- Transfering move from a video source to a target.

##  5. <a name='BrainstormingyourOwnApplications'></a>Brainstorming your Own Applications
- Identify existing problems
    - Medicine:
      - Cancer detection requires years of education and experience
    - Driving:
      - Requires constant focused attention
      - Long travels are hard  
    - Security
      - Looking for suspect takes time and is unscalable
      - Detecting dangerous goods in x-rays is difficult. 
    - Manufacturing
      - Detecting defets in manufactured goods is labor intensive and costly
      - Employees can get hurt and do not follow security rules.
    - Insurance
      - Calculate cost of damages from photos of accidents requires training

##  6. <a name='ComputerVisioninAction'></a>Computer Vision in Action

Computer Vision in Action
There are two parts to building a Computer Vision application, developing the model and deploying it via an application. CV Studio is a Computer Vision learning tool to build your Computer Vision application in an interactive web application. Once you have developed your Computer Vision application, you can deploy it. You can check out some of the demos on CV Studio at the following [link](https://vision.skills.network/).

##  7. <a name='PracticeAssessment'></a>Practice Assessment
files on upload folder...

##  8. <a name='GradedQuiz-OverviewofComputerVisionandItsApplications'></a>Graded Quiz - Overview of Computer Vision and Its Applications
files on upload folder...


