<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Threading Basics](#ThreadingBasics)
	* 1.1. [Threads and processes](#Threadsandprocesses)
	* 1.2. [When should we use multithreading in NET?](#WhenshouldweusemultithreadinginNET)
	* 1.3. [Background threads](#Backgroundthreads)
	* 1.4. [What is managed threading?](#Whatismanagedthreading)
* 2. [Creating and destroying threads](#Creatinganddestroyingthreads)
	* 2.1. [Creating managed threads](#Creatingmanagedthreads)
	* 2.2. [Pausing thread execution](#Pausingthreadexecution)
	* 2.3. [Destroying managed threads](#Destroyingmanagedthreads)
* 3. [Handling threading exceptions](#Handlingthreadingexceptions)
* 4. [Synchronizing data accross threads](#Synchronizingdataaccrossthreads)
	* 4.1. [Synchronizing code regions](#Synchronizingcoderegions)
	* 4.2. [Manual synchronization](#Manualsynchronization)
		* 4.2.1. [Multiple readers, single writer lock](#Multiplereaderssinglewriterlock)
* 5. [Scheduling and canceling work](#Schedulingandcancelingwork)
	* 5.1. [Scheduling managed threads](#Schedulingmanagedthreads)
	* 5.2. [Cancelling managed threads](#Cancellingmanagedthreads)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

Here you will learn:
- How to create and destroy threads
- Handle exceptions
- Synchronize data
- Utilize the objects provided by .NET to handle backgroun operations
- A basic understanting of how threads can be managed in a .NET application
- 
##  1. <a name='ThreadingBasics'></a>Threading Basics

- The `System.Threading` namespace has benn available since `.NET Framework 1.0`
  - So, what a `thread` is and how can be used by the application processes is a **MUST**.


###  1.1. <a name='Threadsandprocesses'></a>Threads and processes
- Threads and processes are the basic units of application processing
- A `process` encapsulates all the execution of an application. It is an `.exe` or `hosted service`
- A `thread` represents a single unit of execution within a process.
  - By defaults .NET applications executes all its logic on a `single main thread`
###  1.2. <a name='WhenshouldweusemultithreadinginNET'></a>When should we use multithreading in NET?
- There are internal and external (to the application) factors:
  - External:
    - The HW where the SW will be deployed
      - The power of the processor
      - Which other processes will be running on these systems?
  - Internal: 
    - if there are Limited resources, be judicious with the use of multiple threads
    - if it impact on performance, reduce number of threads
    - if the application is **mission-critical**, allocate more resources!
    - Yes for desktop and mobile UI responsive applications.
    - Yes for long-running tasks which parallel processing can reduce the overall execution time
      - If the task is not critical, it can be sent to `background threads` .
###  1.3. <a name='Backgroundthreads'></a>Background threads
- `Foreground threads`: 
  - Threads that will prevent the managed process from terminating if they are running.
  - The default option
- `Background threads`: 
  - If the application is terminated, `background threads` will be stopped so that the process can shut down.
- Steps:
  1.   Set `Thread.IsBackground` property to true
  2.   Start the `thread`
- It is possible to use the `Thread.IsBackground` property on existing `threads`

- The code below creates a background thread:
    - This thread iterates until the application is closed
``` cs
//Example CH01A
var bgThread = new Thread(() =>
{
    while (true)
    {
        bool isNetworkUp = System.Net.NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable();
        Console.WriteLine($"Is network available? Answer:{isNetworkUp}");
        Thread.Sleep(2000);
    }
});

bgThread.IsBackground = true; // Background property
bgThread.Start();

for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Main thread working...");
    Task.Delay(10000);
}

Console.WriteLine("Done");
Console.ReadKey();
```

- This code is implemented in [CH01A](https://github.com/LuisCarlosRojasTorres/CSharpLearning/tree/main/ParallelProgAndConcurrency/CH01A), its  output is presented below:
  
``` console
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Done
Is network available? Answer:True
Is network available? Answer:True
Is network available? Answer:True
...
```

- The program executed all the logic of the primary thread before starting any of the background thread work.
  - Later it is explained how to change the priority of the threads to manipulate which work will be processed first.
- The important thing here is that it is possible to stop the console application by pressing a key (due to `Console.ReadKey` command).
  - Even if the `background thread` is still running, the process does not consider the thread to be critical to the application.
  - If `bgThread.IsBackground = true` the application will have to be stopped by clossing the command window or with `Debug| Stop Debugging`.


  
###  1.4. <a name='Whatismanagedthreading'></a>What is managed threading? 
- **Managed threading**: 
  - It is implemented by the `System.Threading.Thread`
  - All the threads that have been run as a part of a process are monitored by a managed execution environment (specific for this process).
  - Manage threads can be uniquely identified using the `ManagedThreadId` property of the `Thread` object. 
    - This property is unique accross all threads and donot change over time
- **Unmanaged threading**:
  - How Cpp with Native Win32 threads are managed.

The `ThreadState` property is a read-only property which provides the current execution state:
- `Aborted`: thread has been aborted
- `AbortRequested`:abort has been requested but has not yet been completed
- `Background`: thread is running in the background
- `Running`: thread is running
- `Stopped`: 
- `StopRequested`: 
- `Suspended`:
- `SuspendRequested`: 
- `Unstarted`: thread was created but not started
- `WaitSleepJoin`: thread is currently blocked
##  2. <a name='Creatinganddestroyingthreads'></a>Creating and destroying threads
- Additional constructors of the `Thread` class
- Few methods of pausing or interrupting thread execution
- Few ways to destroy or terminate a thread execution


###  2.1. <a name='Creatingmanagedthreads'></a>Creating managed threads

- To create a `managed thread` you shalll instantiate a new `Thread` object.
- There are 4 overloaded constructors:
  1. `Thread(ParameterizedThreadStart)`: 
     - It creates a new Thread object. It does this by passing a delegate with a constructor that takes an object as its parameter that can be passed when calling `Thread.Start()`.
  2. `Thread(ParameterizedThreadStart, Int32)`: 
     - This adds a `maxStackSize` parameter. 
     - Avoid using this overload because it is best to allow .NET to manage the stack size.
  3. `Thread(ThreadStart)`: 
     - It creates a new Thread object that will execute the method to be invoked, which is provided as the `ThreadStart` property
  2. `Thread(ThreadStart, Int32)`: 
     - This adds a `maxStackSize` parameter. 
     - Avoid using this overload because it is best to allow .NET to manage the stack size.
- The previous example uses the `Thread(ThreadStart)` constructor.
- An example of using the `Thread(ParameterizedThreadStart)` constructor is presented below:
  - `bgThread.Start(12)`  makes the thread iterates `12` times. 

``` cs
var bgThread = new Thread((object? data) =>
{
    if (data is null) return;
    int counter = 0;
    var result = int.TryParse(data.ToString(), out int maxCount);
    
    if (!result) return;
    
    while (counter < maxCount)
    {
        bool isNetworkUp = System.Net.NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable();
        Console.WriteLine($"Is network available? Answer: {isNetworkUp}");
        Thread.Sleep(1000);
        counter++;
    }
});

bgThread.IsBackground = true;
bgThread.Start(3); // This limits the iteration to 12 times!

for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Main thread working...");
    Task.Delay(10000);
}
Console.WriteLine("Done");
Console.ReadKey();
```
- This code is implemented in [CH01B](https://github.com/LuisCarlosRojasTorres/CSharpLearning/tree/main/ParallelProgAndConcurrency/CH01B), its  output is presented below:

``` console
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Done
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
...
```

- The program executes just like the last example, but the background thread should only
output `3` lines to the console.
- To get a reference to the thread that is executing the current code, you can call:
    - Then its `ManagedThreadId`, `Priority` can be called.
``` cs 
var currentThread = System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread;
```
###  2.2. <a name='Pausingthreadexecution'></a>Pausing thread execution
- `Thread.Sleep` is a `static` method that will block the **current thread** for the number of milliseconds specified.
  - It is not possible to call `Thread.Sleep` on a thread other than tha **current one**.


- The example from previous section was edited so:
  - Its `Thread.Sleep` interval is set to `10`
  - It is not a background thread anymore
  - `Task.Delay` was change with `Task.Sleep`

``` cs
var bgThread = new Thread((object? data) =>
{
    if (data is null) return;
    int counter = 0;
    var result = int.TryParse(data.ToString(), out int maxCount);

    if (!result) return;

    while (counter < maxCount)
    {
        bool isNetworkUp = System.Net.NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable();
        Console.WriteLine($"Is network available? Answer: {isNetworkUp}");
        Thread.Sleep(100);
        counter++;
    }
});

bgThread.Start(4); // This limits the iteration to 3 times!

for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Main thread working...");
    Thread.Sleep(250);
}
Console.WriteLine("Done");
Console.ReadKey();
```
- This code is implemented in [CH01C](https://github.com/LuisCarlosRojasTorres/CSharpLearning/tree/main/ParallelProgAndConcurrency/CH01C), its  output is presented below:

``` console
Main thread working...
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Main thread working...
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Done
...
```
- The `Thread.Sleep` intervals can be adjusted to see how they impact hte `console` output.
  - In this case the thread finished its work before the main thread
  
- On the other hand `Thread.Sleep(Timeout.Infinite)`:
  - It pauses the thread until it is interrupted or aborted by another thread or the managed environment.
    - To interrupt call `ThreadInterrupt`, the thread will receive a `ThreadInterruptException`
    - Call `ThreadInterrupted` in a running thread have no effects until the thread has benn blocked.
###  2.3. <a name='Destroyingmanagedthreads'></a>Destroying managed threads
- It is considered an *unsafe practice**
  - NET6 does not support `Thread.Abort` method
- To terminate a thread use `cancelation` instead. 
  
##  3. <a name='Handlingthreadingexceptions'></a>Handling threading exceptions
- `ThreadStartException`: It is thrown if there is a problem starting the managed thread before any user code in the thread can be executed.
- `ThreadStateException`: It is thrown when a method on the thread is called that is not available when the thread is in its current `ThreadState` property.
  - e.g., Call `Thread.Start()` on a thread that has already started ins invalid and thrown a `ThreadStateException` exception.
    - This kind of exceptions can be avoided by checking the `ThreadState` property before calling a method.
  - Its recomended to add **LOGGING** to the exception handlers and methods to alert users when logs are reporting failures.
  
##  4. <a name='Synchronizingdataaccrossthreads'></a>Synchronizing data accross threads
- Shared data accross multiple threads can be one of the primary pain points if mnultithreaded development if not handled properly.
  - **Thread-safe**: Term for classes that have protection in place for threading.
- There are 4 ways to synchronize data in multithreaded applications:
1.  `Synchronized code regions`: Only synchronize the block of code that is necessary using the `Monitor` class or with some help from the `.NET` compiler.
2.  `Manual synchronization`: There are several `synchronization primitives` in `.NET` that can be used to manually synchronize data.
3.  `Synchronized context`: Only available in `.NET` framework
4.  `System.Collections.Concurrent` classes: described in `Chapter9`


###  4.1. <a name='Synchronizingcoderegions'></a>Synchronizing code regions
- `Monitor` class:
  - It can surround a block of code that can be accessed by multiple threads with calls to `Monitor.Enter` and `Monitor.Exit`:
    - Imagine that the `order` object is being updated by multiples threads in parallel. 
      - The `Monitor` class will lock access from other threads while the current thread adds an `orderDetail` item to the `order` object
      - So, only locking the lines of code that need to be synchronized, it minimize the chance of introduce wait time to other threads.
    ``` cs
    Monitor.Enter(order);
    order.AddDetails(orderDetail);
    Monitor.Exit(rder);
    ```
- The `Interlocked` class provides several methods for performing `atomic operations` (i.e.,program operations that run completely independently of any other processes) on objects shared accross multiple threads.
  - Its methods will lock access to target object only for the duration of that operation.
- Additionaly, the `lock` statement can be used to lock access to a block of code to only a single thread.

###  4.2. <a name='Manualsynchronization'></a>Manual synchronization
- The following types of variables:
  - Global fields
  - Static fields
  - Instance fields
- They donnot have method bodies, so there is no way to put a synchronized code region around them. For that reason they are `manually synchronized`.
- With `manual sinchronization` it is possible to protect all the areas where these objects are used.
- `Mutex` class: 
  - It is similar to the `Monitor` class (it blocks access to a region) 
  - It can also provide the ability to grant access to other processes.
  - When used, use the following methods
    - `WaitOne()`: acquire the lock
    - or `WaitOne(int timePeriod)`: to enforce a timeout period on the `Mutex` class.
    - `ReleaseMutex()`: release the lock
  - `Mutex` is a `Disposable` type. So it is better if you used in a `using` block.
  - From the previous `order/detail` example:
  ``` cs
  private static Mutex orderMutex = new Mutex();
  //...
  orderMutex.WaitOne();
  order.AddDetails(orderDetail);
  orderMutex.ReleaseMutex();
  //...
  ```
####  4.2.1. <a name='Multiplereaderssinglewriterlock'></a>Multiple readers, single writer lock

- If you have an object that is used across multiple threads, but most of the code is **reading** data from the object.
  - So, dont want to lock access to the object in the blocks of code that are reading data.
  - BUT you want to prevent reading while the object is being updated or simultaneouly written.
  - This is referred as **Multiple readers, single writer** and generally the `ReaderWriterLockSlim` class is used.
- More information about types for manual synchronization [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/es-es/dotnet/standard/threading/overview-of-synchronization-primitives)

##  5. <a name='Schedulingandcancelingwork'></a>Scheduling and canceling work

###  5.1. <a name='Schedulingmanagedthreads'></a>Scheduling managed threads
- Scheduling threads in managed threads is not as explicit as it might sounds.
  - There is no mechanism to tell the O.S. to kick off work ar specific times or to execute within certain intervals.
- To schedule managed threads, set priorities on the threads through the `Thread.Priosity` property to one of the following values:
  - `Highest`
  - `AboveNormal`
  - `Normal` (default, recommended)
  - `BelowNormal`
  - `Lowest`
- In general:
  - A higher priority threads will execute before those of lower priority.
  - A `lowest-priority` thread will not execute until all the higher piority threads have been completed.
  - If the thread has started and a `higher-priority` thread starts. The `lower-priority` thread will be suspended so that the `higher-priority` thread can be run.
  - **THESE RULES ARE NOT ABSOLUTE** but can be used as a guide.
- If there are multiple threads of the same priority, the OS will cycle through them, giving each thread up to a maximum allotment of time before suspending work and moving on to the next thread of the same priority.
  - The logic varies by the OS and the priorization of a process can changes based on if the application is in the `foreground` of the UI

The following example creates 5 threads of different priorities, then the `console output` is presented:
``` cs
// NetworkingWork.cs
public class NetworkingWork
{
  public void CheckNetworkStatus(object data)
  {
    for (int i = 0; i < 12; i++)
    {
      bool isNetworkUp = System.Net.
      NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable();
      Console.WriteLine($"Thread priority {(string)data}; Is network available? Answer: {isNetworkUp}");
      i++;
    }
  }
}
```
``` cs
// Program.cs
var bgThread1 = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);
var bgThread2 = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);
var bgThread3 = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);
var bgThread4 = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);
var bgThread5 = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);

bgThread1.Priority = ThreadPriority.Lowest;
bgThread2.Priority = ThreadPriority.BelowNormal;
bgThread3.Priority = ThreadPriority.Normal;
bgThread4.Priority = ThreadPriority.AboveNormal;
bgThread5.Priority = ThreadPriority.Highest;

bgThread1.Start("Lowest");
bgThread2.Start("BelowNormal");
bgThread3.Start("Normal");
bgThread4.Start("AboveNormal");
bgThread5.Start("Highest");

for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
  Console.WriteLine("Main thread working...");
}
Console.WriteLine("Done");
Console.ReadKey();
```
As it can be observed the threads does not follow the priority order and this depends on the OS.
``` console
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Main thread working...
Done
Thread priority Lowest; Is network available? Answer: True
Thread priority Highest; Is network available? Answer: True
Thread priority Normal; Is network available? Answer: True
Thread priority BelowNormal; Is network available? Answer: True
Thread priority AboveNormal; Is network available? Answer: True
```
###  5.2. <a name='Cancellingmanagedthreads'></a>Cancelling managed threads
- Cancelling manage threads are important for:
  - Long-running operations running on foreground threads (they should support `cancellation`)
  - Cancel processes through your application's UI
  - Clean up process while the application is closing
- To cancel an operation it is used a `CancellationToken` parameter.
- Threads does not have built-in support for `CancellationToken`.
  - So, the `CancellationToken` shall be passed to the method runned within the thread

In the example below, the `CancellationToken` is passed as a parameter to stop the `while` statement which will be evaluating the `IsCancellationRequested` property.

``` cs
public class NetworkingWork
{
  public void CheckNetworkStatus(object data)
  {
    var cancelToken = (CancellationToken)data;
    while (!cancelToken.IsCancellationRequested)
    {
      bool isNetworkUp = System.Net.NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable();
      Console.WriteLine($"Is network available? Answer: { isNetworkUp}");
    }
  }
}
```
Then in main program:
- To pass the `CancellationToken` parameter to the `Thread.Start` method, create a new `CancellationTokenSource` object named as `ctSource`
- The `CancellationToken` is available though `.Token` property
- The `for` loop, have a `Thread.Sleep(50)` permits the pingThread to execute along this interval.
- Once the loop is finished:
  - The `.Cancel()` method is invoked
  - Then the `.Join()` method of the thread is called.
    - `Thread.Join()` method block the current thread and wait until the `pingThread` complete its work.

``` cs
var networkingWork = new NetworkingWork();
var pingThread = new Thread(networkingWork.CheckNetworkStatus);
var ctSource = new CancellationTokenSource();
pingThread.Start(ctSource.Token);

for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Loop: {i} Main thread working...");
    Thread.Sleep(50);
}
Console.WriteLine($"Loop finished");
ctSource.Cancel();
pingThread.Join();
ctSource.Dispose();
```

As it can be observed the application will finish gracefully due to the `CancellationToken`
``` console
Loop: 0 Main thread working...
Is network available? Answer: True
Loop: 1 Main thread working...
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Loop: 2 Main thread working...
Is network available? Answer: True
Is network available? Answer: True
Loop finished
Is network available? Answer: True
```

#### Note:
- Long-running process on a manage thread should check for cancellation as the code:
  - Iterates through loops
  - begins a new step in a process
  - use a timer to periodically perform work, then the token should be checked each time the timer executes.

