<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [S1 - Exploring how a project manager adds value](#S1-Exploringhowaprojectmanageraddsvalue)
	* 1.1. [Introduction: Becoming an effective project manager](#Introduction:Becominganeffectiveprojectmanager)
	* 1.2. [The value of a project manager](#Thevalueofaprojectmanager)
	* 1.3. [How project managers impact organizations](#Howprojectmanagersimpactorganizations)
* 2. [S2 - Learning more about project manager roles and responsibilities](#S2-Learningmoreaboutprojectmanagerrolesandresponsibilities)
	* 2.1. [Key project manager roles and responsibilities](#Keyprojectmanagerrolesandresponsibilities)
	* 2.2. [Ungraded Plugin: Identify: Project opportunities and tasks](#UngradedPlugin:Identify:Projectopportunitiesandtasks)
	* 2.3. [Responsibilities that utilize interpersonal skills](#Responsibilitiesthatutilizeinterpersonalskills)
	* 2.4. [A project manager’s role within a team](#Aprojectmanagersrolewithinateam)
	* 2.5. [Working with cross-functional teams](#Workingwithcross-functionalteams)
* 3. [S3 - Acquiring the core skills of a successful project manager](#S3-Acquiringthecoreskillsofasuccessfulprojectmanager)
	* 3.1. [The core skills of a project manager](#Thecoreskillsofaprojectmanager)
	* 3.2. [Key competencies: Flexibility and handling ambiguity](#Keycompetencies:Flexibilityandhandlingambiguity)
	* 3.3. [Practice Assignment: Reflection: Identify the essential skills of a project manager](#PracticeAssignment:Reflection:Identifytheessentialskillsofaprojectmanager)
	* 3.4. [Common myths about project managers](#Commonmythsaboutprojectmanagers)
	* 3.5. [Practice Assignment: Test your knowledge: Acquiring the core skills of a successful project manager](#PracticeAssignment:Testyourknowledge:Acquiringthecoreskillsofasuccessfulprojectmanager)
	* 3.6. [Leadership and team dynamics](#Leadershipandteamdynamics)
	* 3.7. [Practice Assignment: Reflection: Influence without authority](#PracticeAssignment:Reflection:Influencewithoutauthority)
* 4. [S4 - Review: Becoming an effective project manager](#S4-Review:Becominganeffectiveprojectmanager)
	* 4.1. [Wrap up](#Wrapup)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='S1-Exploringhowaprojectmanageraddsvalue'></a>S1 - Exploring how a project manager adds value

###  1.1. <a name='Introduction:Becominganeffectiveprojectmanager'></a>Introduction: Becoming an effective project manager
- By the end of this module, you'll be able to explain the unique value a project manager brings to their team. 
- You'll also be able to describe a project manager's roles and responsibilities, and list their core skills. 
- This course will help you continue to recognize the skills that you already have that will help you become a successful project manager. 
- It will also help you identify new skills that you may need to learn in preparation for your new career. Ready? Let's get started.

###  1.2. <a name='Thevalueofaprojectmanager'></a>The value of a project manager
- Project managers shepherd projects from start to finish and serve as guides for their team, using their impeccable organizational and interpersonal skills every step of the way.
- Project managers usually follow a process that involves planning and organizing, managing tasks, budgeting, and controlling costs so that the project can be completed within the approved timeframe. 
- Project managers play a crucial role in their organizations. Project managers add value to their teams and organizations in key ways that include:
  - Prioritization, 
  - Delegation, and 
  - Effective communication.
-  Prioritization: 
   -  Project managers add value to their teams and organizations through effective prioritization of tasks required to complete a project. 
   -  They're experts at helping team members identify and break down large tasks into smaller steps. 
   -  There'll be times when a project manager may not know which task to prioritize. To determine which ones are the most critical to the success of the project, they'll connect with their teams and with stakeholders to gather information and make a plan. 
   -  NOTE: Stakeholders are people who are interested in and affected by the project's completion and success, like the leader of an organization. 
   -  When you effectively prioritize important tasks, you set up your team and yourself for a better project outcome. 
- Delegation:
  - Project managers use delegation to add value to their teams and organizations by matching tasks to individuals who can best complete the work. 
  - So by delegating a specific task to the person with the right skills to complete the work and ordering the task appropriately, you're applying knowledge of your team's strengths to the planning of your project. 
- Effective communication:
  - Project managers deliver value through effective communication, both with their team and with key stakeholders. 
  - This refers to being **transparent**, which means being up front with plans and ideas and making information readily available. 
  - Project managers **keep in regular contact with their team about the progress of the work** and **help identify areas where a teammate may need support**.
  - In addition to keeping up with teammates, project managers** keep in regular contact with people outside of the team**, like company leaders who are invested in the project outcomes.
  - So it's a good thing you're here to keep the project running smoothly and efficiently. 

###  1.3. <a name='Howprojectmanagersimpactorganizations'></a>How project managers impact organizations
- This reading will focus on the main ways that project managers can add value to projects and impact organizations, which include: 
- **Focusing on the customer:**
  - Customers are always a key element to success in any business. 
  - In project management, the word “customer” refers to **a person or an organization that defines the requirements of the project and sets important guidelines**, such as ***budget*** and ***deadlines***. 
  - In projects, customers **can be internal or external**. 
    - Internal customers are stakeholders within your organization, such as management, project team members, resource managers, and other organizational departments. 
    - External customers are customers outside of your organization, such as clients, contractors, suppliers, and consumers.  
  - **To successfully deliver a project, it has to meet the customer’s standards**. To meet the customer’s standards, you have to make sure you clearly understand their expectations. The customer is at the center of a successful project. Project managers can add a lot of value to the project by building relationships with customers and taking the time to make sure the customer is heard and satisfied with the result. 
  - Asking the customer questions:
    - Let’s discuss how you can focus on the customer in a project. First, sit with the customer and ask what problem they are trying to solve. You might ask if they have a specific vision of the final outcome they would like delivered. Sometimes, customers will lean on project managers to find the solution to their problem. It’s your job to ask questions like:
      - What is the problem you would like us to help solve? 
        - Example response: The customer wants help developing a new process that would allow their company to be more efficient.
      - How is the problem impacting your organization? 
        - Example response: The customer states that they are losing clients because of their current inefficient processes since clients are sometimes receiving their orders late.
      - What prompted you to ask for help now? 
        - Example response: The customer says that they may lose department funding if they do not improve efficiency. 
      - What is your hope for the outcome of this project? 
        - Example response: The customer states that their ultimate goal is to increase the speed at which they fill orders without sacrificing quality.  
    - Taking the time to dig a little deeper into the “why” behind the project can help a project manager better support and understand the customer. The more you understand the customer’s goals, the more likely you will be able to produce what the customer is seeking.
- **Building a great team:**
  - The **team is a project’s biggest asset**. 
  - A successful project manager knows that and takes the **time to understand each person’s motivations, strengths, and weaknesses**. 
    - Project managers add value to the project by identifying the right team for the project and enabling the team to be successful and make decisions. 
  - When you work to build a great team, you have to **consider the skills needed for the project**, as well as the resources available. 
  - Understanding the customer’s requirements helps shape the skills needed for your team. 
    - If you are working on a project that requires people with medical expertise and you hire people who do not have a medical background, no matter how hard that team works, they will not have the right skill set to complete the project. 
  - As project manager, you should bring on people with the right skills and **ensure the team knows that each individual is valued, trusted, and appreciated**. 
  - You can demonstrate how you feel about the team’s value by allowing them to have input and ask questions, and by addressing their needs as soon as possible. 
- **Fostering relationships and communication:**
  - Maintaining customer satisfaction and building a great team are two ways that you, as a project manager, can add value to a project. Both of these skills are built on the foundation of relationships and communication. The project managers who add the most value are the ones who take the time to build relationships, communicate, and treat others with consideration and respect.
  - Project managers can set the tone for a project and **build relationships within their teams and with stakeholders**. Taking the time to check in daily with your team, see how they’re doing, and ask if there is anything they need help with can go a long way towards making them feel valued and heard. 
- **Managing the project:**
  - When you build teams, each person is generally assigned specific project tasks. Once each task is done, the person responsible for that task hands that part of the project over to the next person. Your team members don’t always see the whole picture and how they impact others in a project. A successful project manager sees the impacts of each process within the project and communicates those impacts to the team. This ensures that everyone working on the project understands their task goal as well as the big picture goal for the finished product. For example, if a graphic designer working on marketing materials for your project doesn't understand the customer’s overall goal to appeal to educators, they may not be able to fully capture the vision for the campaign. Helping this team member understand the big picture allows them to tailor their tasks to meet the needs of the project's end goal.
  - Managing a project can be busy, but if you take the time to build relationships and maintain open lines of communication, you will increase the chances of the project’s success as well as the customer’s and your team members’ satisfaction. 
- **Breaking down barriers:**
  - Sometimes, when you ask why something is being done a certain way, the response you get is, “Because we’ve always done it this way.” A project manager adds value to a project when they break down barriers, allow their team to innovate new ways to do things, and empower them to share ideas. As a project manager, you have to model ingenuity and collaboration, and encourage your team to do the same.
  - How can you break down barriers on a project? You can provide support for your team as they try new approaches to find solutions, and you can advocate for additional resources for your team. If your team is having a hard time getting an answer from another organization, you can reach out to the organization yourself in order to keep the team on track and on schedule. 
  - Key takeaway: 
    - You have now learned some of the ways that project managers can add value to projects and impact organizations. By focusing on the customer, building a great project team, fostering relationships and communication, managing the project, and breaking down barriers, you can overcome obstacles and find solutions to succeed. 

##  2. <a name='S2-Learningmoreaboutprojectmanagerrolesandresponsibilities'></a>S2 - Learning more about project manager roles and responsibilities

###  2.1. <a name='Keyprojectmanagerrolesandresponsibilities'></a>Key project manager roles and responsibilities
- project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and achieve the desired outcome. How does that actually happen? 
- Project managers usually follow a process that involves:
  - **planning and organizing**: making use of productivity tools and creating processes. you may also need to create plans, timelines, schedules, and other forms of documentation to track project completion, and you'll usually need to maintain those documents throughout the entirety of the project. 
  - managing tasks, 
  - **budgeting, and controlling costs, and other factors**: As the project is underway, changes to the plan and budget are bound to come up. This will require you to monitor and manage the budget, track issues and risks as they arise, and manage quality by **mitigating those issues and risks**. 
  - One way to do this is by removing unforeseen barriers that come up. Now, by barriers, we mean things that can get in the way of project progress. 
    - For example, if your teammates lack the resources needed to complete a task, you might identify that issue, or barrier upfront, escalate the issue to a stakeholder, and work to secure the resource so your team can move forward. 
  - **managing tasks**: A project task is an activity that needs to be accomplished within a set period of time by you, your team, or your stakeholders. 
    - Keeping track of tasks is a great way to **help manage the team's workload** and ensure that things are getting done. 
    - Keeping track of tasks is also a great tool for **demonstrating progress** to people outside the immediate team, like your stakeholders. 
 

###  2.2. <a name='UngradedPlugin:Identify:Projectopportunitiesandtasks'></a>Ungraded Plugin: Identify: Project opportunities and tasks

###  2.3. <a name='Responsibilitiesthatutilizeinterpersonalskills'></a>Responsibilities that utilize interpersonal skills
- What are the core job responsibilities of project managers? 
- The project manager is responsible for:
  - planning, organizing, 
  - managing tasks, 
  - budgeting, controlling costs, and other factors to help keep the project within budget and on time. 
- as the project manager, you will be responsible for tracking the day-to-day details of the project, but you will also have an opportunity to step back and see the bigger picture of the overall project.
- Depending on the project and organization, you may also have responsibilities that utilize your interpersonal skills. Interpersonal skills are the behaviors you use to interact with others, such as communication, active listening, and leadership.

#### Teaching and mentoring
- As a project manager, you can serve as a mentor to your team. 
- When you take the time to fully explain the expectations, you eliminate rework, confusion, and frustration.
- Mentoring and teaching others the lessons that you, as a project manager, have learned allows your team to make better choices and build on your experience. 
- Mentoring also involves supporting each individual on your team in meeting expectations and helping them to exceed their own sense of personal potential.

#### Building relationships 
- Getting to know your team members lets them know that you care about them as people, not just as employees. 
- Taking the time to build relationships with your customers, clients, vendors, and other stakeholders is equally important. 
- Dedicate time to check in with people. Pay attention to the insights they offer you about their work style since their actions can inform how to most effectively interact with them. 
  - Ask about their lives beyond the project, and then follow up on those discussions later on to show your interest. When you foster these relationships, you are all more invested in the success of your project.

#### Controlling change
- The American novelist Louis L’Amour wrote, “The only thing that never changes is that everything changes.” 
- TProjects change as you continue to understand the expectations and the needs of your stakeholders. 
- As a project manager, you need to **remain flexible and adjust to the stakeholders’ needs**. 
  - However, it is also important to **protect your team from constant change and rework**. 
    - A good way to do this is by **documenting (email?) the initial expectations** of the project and clearly identifying the changes being requested. 
    - It is also helpful to **understand the budget and schedule impact of the changes** and make sure that the stakeholders understand those impacts. As the project manager, you are responsible for **protecting your team**. 

#### Empowering your team
- We all enjoy being heard and appreciated in our careers. 
- Giving your team the ability to work directly with the stakeholders and their teams lets them know that you trust and believe in their skills! 
  - One of the best things about empowering your team is getting fresh ideas and passionate employees willing to help find solutions to problems. Another way you can empower your team is by delegating responsibilities to them, allowing them to make some decisions for the project, and using their input in the planning and execution of the project. 
- Effective mentoring often leads to more empowered teams.

#### Communicating status and concerns
- As a project manager, communication is everything. 
  - With effective communication, you can work together with your team to find solutions to challenges. 
- The project manager sets the tone for the project. Maintaining an open door policy and building trust within your team and among stakeholders—all while staying positive—will help the success of the project.

#### Key takeaway
- You have learned that project managers may be responsible for:
- teaching and mentoring project team members, 
- building relationships with the team and various stakeholders, 
- controlling change and the impact to the project, empowering team members to make decisions, and communicating status and potential concerns. These interpersonal responsibilities can be just as important to the success of your projects as your more concrete responsibilities, like scheduling and budgeting.

###  2.4. <a name='Aprojectmanagersrolewithinateam'></a>A project manager’s role within a team

- project manager as someone who manages the tasks of a project. 
But what does that really mean, right? Well, although you might have a few teammates working with you on a project, you're probably not their day-to-day boss. With the help of your team, you can get a lot more done together.
- Everyone on your team will have their own set of roles and responsibilities.
-   As the project manager, you won't be an expert in every project role, and that's okay. you're responsible for guiding your team and making sure that they have the support that they need in order to complete the project.
   -   hold all team members accountable for their assigned tasks. Managing tasks will help you hold your team members accountable by giving them ownership over specific pieces of the project.
   -   Second, you'll need to ensure that issues and risks are tracked and visible, and be able to establish escalation paths. Now by escalation paths, I mean that you should know how you will communicate risks to the right people at the right time.
   -   Third, you'll need to understand and help teammates adopt the right workflows and project management styles.
      -   As the project manager, you'll likely have the best idea of which style is best for the work. It's your job to ensure that the team adheres to that style and the other systems in place.
 -   And fourth, you'll need to collaborate with other teams at the organization to meet the requirements based on project, scope, schedule, and budget. In other words, a project may affect not only your team, but other teams at an organization, as well as, say, the marketing or the finance team. So you'll need to work with those teams to ensure that everyone is happy with the project outcomes.
 

###  2.5. <a name='Workingwithcross-functionalteams'></a>Working with cross-functional teams
As a project manager, you will likely work with cross-functional teams. A cross-functional team includes team members who have different backgrounds, types of expertise, and job functions. Even though these team members have different skill sets, occupy different roles, and may even work in different departments, they are all working towards a common goal: **the successful completion of your project. **

Sometimes the members of a cross-functional team are referred to as “T-shaped professionals.” They are skilled in how to collaborate and innovate with those in different job functions and across different departments, but they also contribute their own specific areas of expertise. Each member of a cross-functional team has their own unique perspective and experience, bringing different ideas and strategies to the project. 

#### Clarify goals
- When working with cross-functional teams, it is important to ensure that each member of the team understands their role, how they support each other, and the common goals of the project. 
- It is vital to set clear goals for the team and make sure that the team understands those goals. 
- Be direct and concise, avoiding extraneous details and explanations. When communicating task or project goals, make sure you define key items, such as budget, deadlines, quality requirements, or important resources. Ensure your team members understand task and project goals by encouraging them to ask questions and clarify information. 
- It will be up to you to continuously check in with your team to make sure they’re all moving towards their goals, staying on track, and completing quality work. 

#### Get team members with the right skills
- Making sure you have team members with the correct skill sets for each of the project functions is critical.
- As the project manager, you must help ensure that your team has the right people with the right skill sets needed for the project to succeed. 

#### Measure progress
- Showing your team how much they have accomplished helps keep them motivated. 
- This helps everyone see the full picture and recognize their impact on the project. You can measure progress in many ways, including meeting key milestones, completing project tasks, and meeting project goals on time and within budget. 
- Regularly communicate with your team members to check on their progress. Ask them if they anticipate being finished on time. If not, ask how you can help them succeed.
- Keep track of the team’s progress throughout the project by documenting when tasks and goals are completed, and let your team members know if the project is on track or not.
- Make sure you communicate successes, delays, or issues, to the team so they know how the project is progressing.
- Keeping everyone informed is essential to the project’s success.

#### Recognize efforts
- Sometimes, when you work with cross-functional teams, there are certain skills that get recognized more than others.
- make sure that each member of your cross-functional team recognizes the value of their efforts each step of the way. You have learned the importance of building relationships with stakeholders, and building relationships with your cross-functional team members is just as important.
- Learning what makes your team members feel supported, giving and taking feedback, and being mindful of each individual's background, personal identifiers, and work style can help mediate some of the differences among team members. 

#### Key takeaway
Being able to communicate clearly with team members, clarify the goals of the project, get team members with the right skills, measure team progress, and recognize team members’ efforts is an important part of your role as the project manager, and is key to your project’s success.

##  3. <a name='S3-Acquiringthecoreskillsofasuccessfulprojectmanager'></a>S3 - Acquiring the core skills of a successful project manager

###  3.1. <a name='Thecoreskillsofaprojectmanager'></a>The core skills of a project manager
- there are four specific skill sets that we think can help a project manager be successful. Those are enabling
- decision-making,
- communicating and escalating,
- flexibility, and
- strong organizational skills.
- First, let's talk about **enabling decision-making**. The ability to enable decision-making on the team, or gathering decisions from the appropriate leader, is crucial to keep projects on task and achieve their goals. Lots of the day-to-day decisions within a project will likely fall to you and your teammates to discuss and agree on. You'll ensure that projects stay on schedule by gathering information from teammates and using those insights to help the team make informed decisions. You'll also make sure that those decisions are communicated to the necessary coworkers, whether that's the immediate team or company leaders. For example, you might provide relevant data or feedback to help your teammates make an informed decision between choice A and choice B.
- The second skill is **communicating and escalating**. As a project manager, you'll use your communication skills in just about everything you do. This might look like documenting plans, sending emails about the status of the project, or holding a meeting to escalate risks or issues to stakeholders. The third skill is flexibility. As a project manager, knowing how to be flexible when changes are needed is key. Plans definitively will change, even with careful upfront planning. For example, maybe the goals of your company change, or maybe a member of your team unexpectedly takes a new position at another company. A good project manager knows that unpredictable moments like these are almost always guaranteed. A quote we love here at Google is, "The only constant is change," and that's true. By staying cool under pressure, you'll be able to adjust while helping your team stay calm, too. Finally, a successful project manager needs strong organizational skills. As you learned earlier, the role of a project manager requires using a lot of different processes to keep the project on track. Having strong organizational skills means having the ability to organize these processes and the core elements of a project to ensure nothing gets lost or overlooked, which trust me, can and does happen. To prevent this, you might decide to track daily tasks in a spreadsheet or send frequent status updates or reminders. There are many ways to stay organized and hone your organizational skills, and we'll talk more about them throughout the program. To recap, decision-making, communicating and escalating, flexibility, and strong organizational skills are four core skill sets that are essential to successful project management. You can continue to build on these skills by becoming familiar with industry knowledge that applies to most project management roles. Knowledge of helpful tools and templates and familiarity with popular project management styles like Waterfall and Agile, can help you organize and document the project throughout its lifecycle. We'll learn about these throughout this program. Hopefully, you feel better equipped to explain the core skills a project manager should bring to the role. These skills really help enforce team morale and accountability for the tasks of a project. We'll discuss this coming up. See you soon.

###  3.2. <a name='Keycompetencies:Flexibilityandhandlingambiguity'></a>Key competencies: Flexibility and handling ambiguity
In the previous video, we discussed the four key competencies of a project manager: enabling decision-making, communicating and escalating, strong organizational skills, and flexibility. With time and practice, you will master these skills to help you become successful in a project management role. In this reading, we’ll dig deeper into why flexibility is essential for effective project management and how you can help your team deal with ambiguity. 

First, let’s review the other project management competencies you’ve learned about so far.

Enabling decision-making
You can help team members feel empowered from the start of your project by making the decision-making process collaborative. For example, state the goals of specific deliverables and elicit input from your team on how to achieve those goals. You may have an idea of how you would like certain tasks to be accomplished, but your team members may have more creative or efficient approaches. Empowering your team to express their opinions and make their own decisions allows you to focus on the overarching management tasks and prioritize them in order of importance. Additionally, when you allow team members to have a voice in decisions, it helps foster an environment of responsibility, accountability, and team closeness. 

Communicating and escalating
Project management requires clearly communicating project goals and expectations, team member roles and responsibilities, and constructive feedback. Knowing how to effectively communicate and when to escalate issues to management is key to keeping you, your team, and your organization on the path to success. When escalation is required, try to approach management with both the problem and the potential solution or suggestions. This will show that you’re taking initiative as a project manager. 

Strong organizational skills
If you demonstrate that it is important for you, as a leader, to stay organized through efficient tracking and communications, your team will follow suit. One way to do this is by utilizing the abundance of organizational tools available, such as:

Planning and scheduling software (templates, workflows, calendars)

Collaboration tools (email, collaboration software, dashboards)

Documentation (files, plans, spreadsheets)

Quality assurance tools (evaluations, productivity trackers, reports)

You may need to experiment with different organizational approaches to determine what works best for you and your team.

Flexibility
All project managers need the ability to adapt and overcome changes and challenges. Let’s further explore why flexibility is such a critical project management skill and discuss how it can help prepare your team for change, mitigate risks, and handle ambiguity. 

Flexible planning
Change is inevitable, and the more flexible you are as a project manager, the more successful you will be throughout your career. These flexible planning strategies can help you manage your project during times of unpredictability: 

Assess external constraints. When planning your project, take external events into account, such as national holidays and team member vacations and sick leave. Leaving extra time in the schedule for these inevitable events up front can help minimize the impact to your project.

Plan for risks and challenges. If you consider the risks that may occur, you may be able to find solutions for them in advance. For example, what if someone on your team gets sick or decides to quit? Are you able to replace them within the company? If not, can you hire an independent contractor? Come up with a list of people who may be able to join your team if one of your team members becomes unavailable. You can also assess risks by looking at historical data. Review your past projects and examine the challenges you faced. Then evaluate if similar challenges could occur in this project and prepare accordingly. We will discuss risk management at length later in this program.

Calculate “float” in your schedule. Float, or slack, refers to the amount of time you can wait to begin a task before it impacts the project schedule and threatens the project outcome. Identifying float in your schedule can help with resource management, scheduling, and keeping your project on track. You will learn more about calculating float in a later course, when we discuss creating a critical path for your project tasks.

Handling ambiguity
Ambiguity can be a big challenge in managing projects. Project managers often face ambiguity in goals, requirements, schedules, vision, or other areas related to the project. Your team will look to you to lead during times of ambiguity and change, and flexibility is especially important during these instances. Here are some different ways to help your team deal with ambiguity: 

Keep calm. In uncertain times, handling ambiguity with grace and poise will help inspire the members of your team to do the same. 

Express empathy. As a project manager, it is important to try to understand what your team is thinking and feeling, especially during times of ambiguity. Let your team members know that you care about the challenges they are facing and are there to support them.

Communicate what you know clearly. Define the aspects of the project that are confirmed and will not change. This helps your team get a better sense of what to expect, regardless of any aspects of the project that are still unknown or changing.

Make decisions and stick to them. Try not to second-guess your decisions in front of your team since this can lead to greater uncertainty. If you need to change course, clearly explain why you have chosen to do so to your team. 

Trust the expertise of your team. Increase clarity by having everyone on your team discuss what they already know or believe to be true about components of your project, such as what is involved in specific tasks or resources needed, based on their areas of expertise. Then, discuss what you still don’t know and brainstorm ways to gather more information.

Key takeaway
As a project manager, having the flexibility and ability to handle ambiguity in a rapidly-changing business setting gives you an advantage. Mastering these competencies, along with enabling decision-making, effective communication skills, and strong organizational skills, will allow you to innovate and grow as a project manager and leader.


###  3.3. <a name='PracticeAssignment:Reflection:Identifytheessentialskillsofaprojectmanager'></a>Practice Assignment: Reflection: Identify the essential skills of a project manager

###  3.4. <a name='Commonmythsaboutprojectmanagers'></a>Common myths about project managers

We have talked about the skills that project managers need to be successful in their role. Now, let’s debunk some of the common myths about what is needed to be an effective project manager. 

Myth: You have to be an expert in the field and have a lot of technical knowledge about the project. 
Reality: There are benefits to the project manager not having a lot of technical knowledge about a project. Rather than getting caught up in the technical details when communicating with management and stakeholders, the project manager can look at all of the different pieces that the cross-functional team is working on and assess how they each contribute to the success of the project. As a project manager, you bring on the right team members—with their differing areas of expertise—and trust them to be able to focus on the technical aspects of the project. Your job is to handle the communication, documentation, and organization necessary to get the project successfully to the finish line. 

Scenario: Jamar just landed his first project management job with a construction company.  He’s been tasked with managing the construction of a new elementary school in his city. He isn’t expected to know how to do all of the technical skills, like engineering, construction, plumbing, and electrical; he hires the right people for the job. He communicates the needs, timelines, and expectations of the project to his team members and stakeholders and helps break down any barriers to completing the project on time. Jamar helps the engineers and construction workers communicate with one another to ensure that they are all on the same page regarding the requirements. He makes sure that the materials are in place as needed for the plumbers and electricians. 

The bottom line: Project managers hire the experts and help put all the pieces of the project together. Project managers don’t need to be experts in every field.   

Myth: Only people with a lot of experience within an organization can manage projects successfully. 
Reality: It is a common misconception that anyone who has significant experience and success in an organization can manage projects there. In order to successfully manage projects in any organization, you must acquire the necessary skills, knowledge, tools, and techniques and be able to apply them. You don’t necessarily need to have worked in previous roles at that organization. In taking this certification, you are learning and practicing how to be an effective project manager before taking on a position.

Scenario: Sofia is a supervisor at a large customer service call center. She has been recognized by leadership as a top performer. To reward her, management has offered her the role of project manager for the implementation of a new call center software program. It will be her job to oversee the installation, training, and implementation of the new process. Sofia tries to manage the project, but she has no idea how to create a project plan, manage the various members of her team, identify risks, or handle any of the other major project management tasks. She lets her manager know that she does not have the appropriate training to manage the project but that she would like to build those skills. Sofia’s manager enrolls her in a project management training course so that she will have the necessary skills to manage projects in the future. 

The bottom line: To be a successful project manager at any organization—regardless of whether you have worked there previously—it is essential to master the skills, tools, and techniques of project management.

Myth: You have to know every single detail about the project at all times. 
Reality: Details matter in project execution, but as a project manager, you must also focus on the big picture and strategy for the project. What is the end goal? Do you and your team have a clear direction? If the whole team understands their objectives and has what they need to be successful in their tasks, they can work on the individual details and provide you space to supervise the overall project goals. Open lines of communication will help ensure that your team members share any possible risks to the budget or schedule with you. 

Scenario: Yui is a project manager working for a clothing company. The company is developing a new line of winter sleepwear that is set to launch in late October. Yui meets with the key stakeholders to determine their goals and timeline for the project. She recruits employees from the merchandising, exports, marketing, materials, production, and quality control departments to be a part of the project team. Yui meets with her team at the start of the project to clarify the objectives for the product line and checks in with them regularly to remove any barriers and find out where they need additional support. When a team member from the materials department informs Yui that the fabric they were planning on using for a particular style of pajamas has increased in price, Yui works with the team member to find a new supplier so that the overall project budget is not impacted. 

The bottom line: Your role as a project manager is to communicate with your stakeholders, clarify objectives, and set expectations. Trust your team to handle the details of each project task and communicate with you when there’s an issue. Through your direct communication and strategic approach to problem-solving, you can provide solutions and help remove barriers for your team. This is where you add value! 

We have just busted three project management myths! Recognizing these truths will help you be more confident and successful as you pursue your project manager career.


###  3.5. <a name='PracticeAssignment:Testyourknowledge:Acquiringthecoreskillsofasuccessfulprojectmanager'></a>Practice Assignment: Test your knowledge: Acquiring the core skills of a successful project manager

###  3.6. <a name='Leadershipandteamdynamics'></a>Leadership and team dynamics

Earlier, you learned about the role of the project manager and the core skills you'll need to be successful in that role. You've also learned more about your role within the project team. Now let's discuss a few key skills that you'll use to build relationships with your teammates and stakeholders. Using your interpersonal skills is key to building relationships with the people involved in your project. By developing these relationships, you'll learn about the needs and concerns of the team. This will help you determine the priorities of the project and motivate your team throughout the process. Possessing strong interpersonal skills is a huge part of good leadership. Even if you've never held a formal leadership position, having these skills will help you when you need to guide a team. This is called influencing without authority, which refers to a project manager's ability to guide teammates to complete their assigned work without acting as their direct managers. There's a few key interpersonal skills that you can use to accomplish this and guide the project outcomes, even without the authority of being your teammates' boss. These skills include communication, negotiation, conflict mediation, and understanding motivations. Let's break these down. First step is a key skill we've mentioned a few times now, communication. In the context of leading a team, communication can include checking in with teammates to understand how they're progressing on a task and providing clear feedback on the quality of a teammate's work. Next is negotiation. Negotiation might include working with a teammate to compromise on a new deadline when they tell you that they won't be able to complete their work on time. Now, trust me, I know this can be frustrating, but you'll need to use your negotiation skills often with your teammates and stakeholders to balance their needs and what is best for the project. Another important skill is conflict mediation. As we mentioned, project plans can change and issues will arise. This can sometimes lead to tension and conflict within the team. Conflict mediation is a great skill to practice and develop to ensure the project does not suffer as a result. This might involve setting up a meeting with two teammates who are struggling to agree upon the best way to handle a shared task. Finally, there's understanding motivations. This means getting to know your teammates and figuring out what pushes them to do their best work. Understanding motivations might also include learning how your teammates prefer to receive feedback, and how they like to receive recognition for doing a great job. You would use that individualized information to motivate and encourage each person on your team. To recap, communication, negotiation, conflict mediation and understanding motivations are all interpersonal skills that will help you influence without authority. During job interviews for project management positions, you might be asked to discuss a time when you influenced without authority, and it's possible that you've already noticed ways that you've used these skills in your personal life without even realizing it. For example, let's say you have a coworker who's constantly late to every meeting and I mean, every meeting, while you can't force them to arrive on time, it's likely that you've thought about ways to motivate them to want to be on time. In doing so, you might have also wondered how to change the way you communicate with your coworker, to influence them to be on time. Maybe you've tried asking them to arrive 15 minutes earlier than the rest of the group or maybe you've told them how this behavior impacts the rest of the team. Both of these strategies are examples of influencing without authority, and they serve to encourage specific behavior. Influencing without authority is one of the most critical and one of the most challenging aspects of project management. As you've just learned, you'll need to leverage your interpersonal skills in order to do it effectively. In later courses, we'll review and learn more about using your interpersonal skills to manage various projects. We'll see you in the next video.

###  3.7. <a name='PracticeAssignment:Reflection:Influencewithoutauthority'></a>Practice Assignment: Reflection: Influence without authority

##  4. <a name='S4-Review:Becominganeffectiveprojectmanager'></a>S4 - Review: Becoming an effective project manager

###  4.1. <a name='Wrapup'></a>Wrap up
Nice work. So far, you've started learning all about project managers and the value they bring to their teams. We also introduced you to a few program managers here at Google, who spoke about their own experiences working in the field. You also learned more about the day-to-day responsibilities of a project manager and how they guide their teammates to do their best work. And you learned about the types of skills you'll need to succeed in a program management role. As we move forward, you'll develop and hone lots of the skills needed for the daily tasks of a project manager. And hopefully, you've also identified the skills you already have that can help you become a great project manager and an asset to employers. Next up, we'll discuss the project life cycle. You'll learn more about the different phases of a project and the tasks associated with each phase. You'll also learn more about some of the most popular project management methodologies used across industries today, and how to choose the best one for your project. See you soon.
