<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [About the Course](#AbouttheCourse)
	* 1.1. [Course Overview](#CourseOverview)
	* 1.2. [Meet Your Instructor: Professor Elizabeth A. Luckman](#MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorElizabethA.Luckman)
	* 1.3. [Meet Your Instructor: Professor Kari Keating](#MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorKariKeating)
	* 1.4. [Meet Your Instructor: Professor Denise Lewin Loyd](#MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorDeniseLewinLoyd)
	* 1.5. [Syllabus](#Syllabus)
	* 1.6. [Getting to Know Our Leadership Experts](#GettingtoKnowOurLeadershipExperts)
	* 1.7. [Interviewees in This Course](#IntervieweesinThisCourse)
	* 1.8. [About the Discussion Forums](#AbouttheDiscussionForums)
	* 1.9. [Online Education at Gies College of Business](#OnlineEducationatGiesCollegeofBusiness)
	* 1.10. [The Impact of the Gies Community](#TheImpactoftheGiesCommunity)
* 2. [About Your Classmates](#AboutYourClassmates)
	* 2.1. [Updating Your Profile](#UpdatingYourProfile)
* 3. [Module 1 Information](#Module1Information)
	* 3.1. [### Introduction of Module 1](#IntroductionofModule1)
	* 3.2. [### Module 1 Overview](#Module1Overview)
	* 3.3. [### Module 1 Readings](#Module1Readings)
* 4. [Lesson 1: Leadership Defined](#Lesson1:LeadershipDefined)
	* 4.1. [### Leadership Defined](#LeadershipDefined)
* 5. [Lesson 2: Brief History of Leadership Research](#Lesson2:BriefHistoryofLeadershipResearch)
	* 5.1. [### Brief History of Leadership Research](#BriefHistoryofLeadershipResearch)
* 6. [Lesson 3: Leadership Competencies](#Lesson3:LeadershipCompetencies)
	* 6.1. [### Leadership Competencies](#LeadershipCompetencies)
* 7. [Lesson 4: Leadership Roles](#Lesson4:LeadershipRoles)
	* 7.1. [### Leadership Roles](#LeadershipRoles)
* 8. [Lesson 5: Defining Leadership for Yourself](#Lesson5:DefiningLeadershipforYourself)
	* 8.1. [Defining Leadership for Yourself](#DefiningLeadershipforYourself)
* 9. [Module 1 Wrap Up](#Module1WrapUp)
	* 9.1. [Module 1 Closing](#Module1Closing)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->
##  1. <a name='AbouttheCourse'></a>About the Course
###  1.1. <a name='CourseOverview'></a>Course Overview

- it's not the definitive body of knowledge on leadership, not really sure what that would even look like. Since leadership is such a broad concept and such a subjective experience, there is no absolute knowledge on how to be an effective leader. It is highly individualized and contextual, you will not complete the course and say, aha, I have learned all I need to know about leadership. 
- Further this course is not a course about organizational design strategy, nor does it address the specific challenges of leaders in the most senior positions. 
- what leaders do to motivate and demotivate their teams. 
  - leadership is about being the shining light in a dark room 
  - an effective leader is the beacon of light for the team. **They don't always have all the answers, they aren't always right, but they set the course and generate the space for others to be the best versions of themselves**. So when you're stuck on, how to act as a leader, shining the light in a dark room is a good place to start. 

###  1.2. <a name='MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorElizabethA.Luckman'></a>Meet Your Instructor: Professor Elizabeth A. Luckman

- My approach to leadership and coaching is grounded in the belief that ethical leadership and strong team dynamics are essential for success in any field. I want to help create environments where individuals can thrive, collaborate effectively, and contribute meaningfully to their organizations.

###  1.3. <a name='MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorKariKeating'></a>Meet Your Instructor: Professor Kari Keating

- I teach some of our experiential learning classes with a focus on real-world problem-solving, teamwork, and putting leadership into practice. 

###  1.4. <a name='MeetYourInstructor:ProfessorDeniseLewinLoyd'></a>Meet Your Instructor: Professor Denise Lewin Loyd

- And I've taught courses such as introduction to management and leadership, core leadership classes for MBA students, and I've taught business ethics which I've enjoyed a lot. I've also taught negotiations and I've led lots of workshops on diversity and teams. So I look forward to seeing you in one of my classes and engaging in any of these topics. 

###  1.5. <a name='Syllabus'></a>Syllabus

**Course Description**
Becoming an effective leader is a practice. The purpose of this course is to help learners establish an understanding of and a practice for their leadership development. 

In the first module, we begin by defining leadership, deeply exploring the construct of leadership, the history of leadership, and encouraging learners to understand why leadership is relevant and significant in their own growth. In the second module, we then turn inward, inviting learners to explore themselves as individuals, including self-awareness, decision-making, and psychological well-being. Next, in the third module, we turn to understanding the relationship between leaders and others by exploring emotional intelligence, navigating differences of opinion, and power dynamics between individuals. Finally, in the fourth module, we wrap the course by helping learners develop a practice for growing as a leader. 

Leadership is a process, not a role. There is not one singular archetype of leadership, and so this course includes a variety of voices discussing relevant leadership concepts. Further, this course is foundational, in that it applies to anyone at any level - from an individual early in the career growth process focused on personal development to a senior level leaders in formal roles inside organizations. This course does not cover strategy, organizational design, or larger organizational level constructs.

**Course Goals and Objectives **
Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to
- define leadership in a way that facilitates personal leadership growth, 
- relate research and ideas to your own leadership experience,
- discover the role of understanding yourself to grow as a leader, 
- explore interpersonal interactions that are core to effective leadership, 
- utilize a framework to further your own leadership development, and 
- understand why and how leadership skills are so critical to organizational success.

**Course Materials **
Readings are assigned in each module. Some readings are from Harvard Business Review. You can open 3 free articles per month, or you can register and gain access to 6 free articles a month. Registration is free. We suggest that you register so you can access more articles from their website for free. 

For those who might like to read more, the two books listed below are optional, but recommended. Both of these authors contributed by being interviewed for our course. Further, the ideas from their books are woven into the content development of the course. We highly recommend both of these books for practicing leaders!

- Wilkins, L. (2021). Leading Below the Surface: How to Create Real (and Psychologically Safe) Relationships from People Who Are Different From You
- Luckman, J. & Flory O. (2019). Transforming Leader Paradigms: Evolving From Blanket Solutions to Problem-Solving For Complexity

**Course Outline**
- Module 1 Defining Leadership  
   - Key concepts:  
     - Definition of leadership for personal growth 
     - History of leadership research 
     - Leadership competencies 
     - Leadership roles 
- Module 2  Strategic Self-Leadership
  - Key concepts:  
    - Leader Identity 
    - Self-Awareness 
    - Effective and ethical individual decision-making 
    - Psychological well-being decision analysis
- Module 3 Leading Others
  - Key concepts:  
    - Emotional Intelligence 
    - Building trusting relationships 
    - Power and influence 
    - Negotiation and conflict management 
- Module 4 Growing as a Leader
  - Key concepts:  
    - Framework for developing as a leader
    - Curiosity
    - Courage 
    - Commitment 

###  1.6. <a name='GettingtoKnowOurLeadershipExperts'></a>Getting to Know Our Leadership Experts

###  1.7. <a name='IntervieweesinThisCourse'></a>Interviewees in This Course

###  1.8. <a name='AbouttheDiscussionForums'></a>About the Discussion Forums

###  1.9. <a name='OnlineEducationatGiesCollegeofBusiness'></a>Online Education at Gies College of Business

###  1.10. <a name='TheImpactoftheGiesCommunity'></a>The Impact of the Gies Community

##  2. <a name='AboutYourClassmates'></a>About Your Classmates

###  2.1. <a name='UpdatingYourProfile'></a>Updating Your Profile

##  3. <a name='Module1Information'></a>Module 1 Information
###  3.1. <a name='IntroductionofModule1'></a>### Introduction of Module 1

###  3.2. <a name='Module1Overview'></a>### Module 1 Overview

###  3.3. <a name='Module1Readings'></a>### Module 1 Readings

##  4. <a name='Lesson1:LeadershipDefined'></a>Lesson 1: Leadership Defined
###  4.1. <a name='LeadershipDefined'></a>### Leadership Defined

I'd like to start by giving you a definition of leadership. Now, there are many definitions of leadership and different ways to conceptualize leadership. But by giving you this specific definition, this is going to help set you up for your own leadership development. 
Defining leadership helps us to determine where we are as leaders, how we are as leaders, and why we are as leaders. It helps us craft our leadership. 

Leadership is a socially-constructed process in which an individual is either given or takes increased responsibility or accountability in empowering others to collectively solve problems in alignment with an organizations or teams purpose. 
- First, leadership is a socially-constructed process. We've talked about how leadership is essentially a relationship between two people. A leader has other people involved. Leadership emerges from those relationships and situations. It emerges out of the meaning that we make in those situations, how we take roles, the behaviors we engage in. That means it's socially constructed. Every time we lead, it's going to feel and be different based on the people and the context involved. **Social constructionism**, as it pertains to leadership, basically means that how we evaluate and understand leadership is context and relationship dependent. How we conceptualize leadership relies on the role we are in and the culture we're in at the moment. You can imagine that taking on the responsibilities of a team, lead in a group without define leadership roles is very different from stepping into the role of say, a VP at a large organization. These are both leadership, but the effectiveness and the evaluation of the people in these positions is going to vary drastically based on the context, the people involved in the basic elements of the culture. 

- No, absolutely. I mean, leadership is a really interesting field because on the one hand, it is so incredibly important. On the other hand, there are a lot of different ways that one can go about being an effective leader. What's effective in this context may not be effective in that context. It's the age-old thing about does the history make the person? Does the person make history? It's both. These things are interacting constantly. Having said that, there are principles, whether those principles come from psychology or sociology or just things about human behavior experience we've learned about what makes organizations healthy versus unhealthy, a really valuable to know about being exposed to. But unfortunately, it's not a simple recipe. I've worked in consulting, I've worked in tech, and I have now I'm an academic, so context matters in a few ways. The task matters the task at hand, the people you're working with Matt also. Your leadership style cannot be the same with an intern or a fresh trainee as it is with, say, in sometimes you're in a situation where the people who are working with you, or just a skill just as knowledgeable, just as qualified as you. You happen to be in this position where you are taking the leadership for a project. I think the styles have to be very different in both these contexts. The second element of this definition is given or takes increased responsibility and accountability. We think about leadership often in terms of power. Someone who takes a formal role has leadership, but you don't have to have formal power. You do have to have responsibility and accountability. It's worth noting that leadership can be given to you in some role, but you can also take advantage of an opportunity to be a leader. You can step up and be a leader in any situation and people will follow those whom they admire and respect regardless of whether or not they are in formal leadership roles. You don't necessarily have to be in a status of leadership to be a leader. You can be a leader at any level with your peers, with new hires that are coming in with people that you might be on a project on. It doesn't necessarily relate to what it is that you do in your day to day. I think it's how it goes beyond what your job title is or what your job role is. I agree on the control being sort of a tough thing to wrap around. I think being a leader is more about being an influencer than having control, or control is more of an org chart notion than truly inspiring people and making change. Well, if we step back again and we think about who are we influenced by? Who can influence people when they don't have any sort of positional or legitimate power? It gets back to issues of power. When there's no clear hierarchy, people will follow people who they like and respect or generally find that they have some expertise. The next element in this definition is empowering others. Leadership is not about command and control. It is not about telling others what to do. Rather it's about giving others the space to grow to be the best version of themselves and to help them solve the problems they have been hired to solve. I think the other thing I've probably really learned over time is how to really empower others that I work with. Again, I'm type A personality. I tend to believe that I can do it all and I can do it all myself. I really learned like that's not the best approach. Like yes, I could do it all and I could probably do it all myself. But it doesn't make me an effective leader at all. It probably makes me a very ineffective leader. Because if you empower people that report to you, if you empower those that you work with and you empower your staff, like you can do amazing things together and it's much more fun than trying to do something on your own. The next element is collectively solve problems. Working in businesses, working in teams is really about solving problems. You're solving problems all day and so leaders need to think about their work in terms of helping people solve problems and creating cultures of problem-solving. People who are ready to engage in problem-solving at any moment. At one point, particularly when I was into the role of being a leader and I had these lean principles and concepts in mind, my thought of leadership was to say I have to impose these lean concepts on the organization. It's changed because I realized now that it's really about leaders building a framework for problem-solving and engaging a social change process so that people can feel the energy in the success of some of these principles by testing them and trying them. Most leaders believe that their job is to tell people what to do. That's not what this is about. This is leaders have to embrace the opportunity to develop a culture that allows people to think and act from within to solve problems. Instead of telling people what to do, you deploy problem responsibility in this very trusting environment and allow them to practice and make mistakes and share their thoughts without fear. The last element of this definition is, in alignment with an organization or team's purpose. Leaders help people know what direction they're going. Leaders have to have vision. They can be the inspiration, they have the bigger picture. At any level, leaders need to help people get together on the same page so they know the purpose, they know why, they know where they're headed with their overall goals. For me, I think a lot about how a leader engages other people to work together towards collective goals. That's how I think about it. What does it mean to engage other people. What motivates them? What informs them? What encourages them to want to act? What does it mean to work together as opposed to not together or not together. Lots of different ways of not being effective collectively. Then what does it mean to have shared goals? Who sets those goals? How do we understand them, buy into them and then what happens with the bumps along the way? Do we adjust, pivot and so forth. To me, engaging others to work together toward collective goals is mostly what we try to do as a leader. Leadership is a socially constructed process in which an individual is either given or takes increased responsibility or accountability in empowering others to collectively solve problems in alignment with an organizations or teams purpose. This definition of leadership reminds us that leadership is socially constructed, so context and relationships matter for how we evaluate effectiveness. It highlights that we do not have to have formal authority to lead that our job is to empower others to solve problems and to see the goals that guide the group or organization toward its purpose. There is space for each of us in any capacity to learn about leadership and grow as leaders ourselves. This definition encourages us to pay attention to the factors that we know are important to effective leadership, like relationships, context, and purpose.

##  5. <a name='Lesson2:BriefHistoryofLeadershipResearch'></a>Lesson 2: Brief History of Leadership Research
###  5.1. <a name='BriefHistoryofLeadershipResearch'></a>### Brief History of Leadership Research

##  6. <a name='Lesson3:LeadershipCompetencies'></a>Lesson 3: Leadership Competencies
###  6.1. <a name='LeadershipCompetencies'></a>### Leadership Competencies

##  7. <a name='Lesson4:LeadershipRoles'></a>Lesson 4: Leadership Roles
###  7.1. <a name='LeadershipRoles'></a>### Leadership Roles

##  8. <a name='Lesson5:DefiningLeadershipforYourself'></a>Lesson 5: Defining Leadership for Yourself
###  8.1. <a name='DefiningLeadershipforYourself'></a>Defining Leadership for Yourself

##  9. <a name='Module1WrapUp'></a>Module 1 Wrap Up

###  9.1. <a name='Module1Closing'></a>Module 1 Closing
