## Understanding computer memory
- John Von Neumann created a model that describes he insides of a computer. Von neumann architectore aka Princeton Architecture.
- It Splits the computer in 4 parts:
  - `ALU` or `Arithmetic Logic Unit`: performs basic operations (`+` `-` `*` `/`) also logical operations i.e. `and` `or` `not`
  - `Control Unit`: coordinates the operation and sequence of data movements between the other parts of the architecture.
    - `ALU` and `Control Unit` form the `CPU` or `Central Processing Unit`
  - `Memory`: which serves data and programs. It comes in two flavors:
    - Temporary memory (RAM i.e. Random Access Memory): 
    - Lasting memory e.g. hard drives.
  - `Computer input and output`: enables communication between the computer and the external world i.e. users, peripherals and even other computers.
### Memory representation, RAM, cells, word, byte, bit, memory address
- RAM:
  - Random access memory
  - temporary, easy and quick to access
  - used to execute programs
  - aka volatile memory
- Lasting memory
  - nonvolatile memory
  - e.g. hard drives
- When a program is running its variables are stored, written and read from RAM
- RAM is represented as a sequence of binary memory cells. Each cell is called `1 bit`.
- Grouping severals of these `cells`  makes a `word`. A `word` can be 8, 16, 32 pr even 64 bits.
  - A memory address is assigned to each `word`, which us a whole number that describes the location of the word in the computer memory.
    - In C it is possible to get this memory address.
- The use of memory addresses allows low-level acces to the computer by allowing direct access to its memory.
## Determining the amount of memory used for different data types
- `%zu` is to print the size.
``` c
#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
    char c;
    int i;
    double d;
    char listChar[3];
    int listInt[3];
    double listDouble[3];
    
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(c)); //1
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(i)); //4
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(d)); //8
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(listChar)); //3
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(listInt)); //12
    printf("%zu\n", sizeof(listDouble)); //24
    return(0);    
}
```
### Exercise
- Your program should first read an integer number indicating how many tracking codes you plan on entering. Next, for each successive tracking code your program should read in the integer length of code followed by a space and then the type of code ('i' for integer, 'd' for decimal, or 'c' for character). Finally your program should print the total amount of space required to store all of the tracking codes (in bytes). If the user enters an incorrect type for any tracking number, the program should print 'Invalid tracking code type' and exit.
  
``` console
#input:
3
10 i
7 c
12 d 
#output:
143 bytes
```

``` c

```
## Determining the scope of variables
- a
``` c

```
- a
``` c

```
### Exercise
- 
``` c

```