<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [What is the Yocto Project](#WhatistheYoctoProject)
* 2. [Delineating the Yocto Project](#DelineatingtheYoctoProject)
* 3. [Understanding Poky](#UnderstandingPoky)
* 4. [Using BitBake](#UsingBitBake)
* 5. [OpenEmbedded-Core](#OpenEmbedded-Core)
* 6. [Metadata](#Metadata)
* 7. [The alliance of the OpenEmbedded Project and the Yocto Project](#TheallianceoftheOpenEmbeddedProjectandtheYoctoProject)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='WhatistheYoctoProject'></a>What is the Yocto Project (YP)

- It helps developers create their own custom Linux distribution for any hardware architecture.
- It provides templates, tools,, and methods to help us create custom Linux-based systems for embedded products regardlessof the hardware architecture.
  - The `OpenEmbedded-Core` is the core system component. 

##  2. <a name='DelineatingtheYoctoProject'></a>Delineating the Yocto Project
 - Yocto input: specification
 - Yocto output: Linux-based embedded product, composed of:
   - Linux kernel
   - bootloader
   - root filesystem (`rootfs`)
 - The Yocto Project's (YP) tools are present in all intermediary steps.
 - It prepares its own build environment, utilities and toolchain (this reduces the amount of host software dependency).
- Under the Yocto Project (YP) there are complementary projects :
  - Poky (`meta-poky`)
  - BitBake (`bitbake`)
  - OpenEmbedded-Core (`meta`)
	
##  3. <a name='UnderstandingPoky'></a>Understanding Poky
- The YP reference system, 
- It provides:
  - all the features an embedded developer needs.
  - the mechanism to build and combine thousands of distributed open source project to form a fully customizable, complete, and coherent Linux software stack.
- It is composed of a collection of tools and metadata
- It is platform-independent
- It performs cross-compiling using:
  - BitBake tool
  - OpenEmbedded Core
  - A default set of metadata.

##  4. <a name='UsingBitBake'></a>Using BitBake
- It is a task scheduler, 
  - It parses Python and shell script mixed code.
    - This code generates and run tasks, which are basically a set of steps ordered per the code's dependencies.
      - Ensuring completion, maximixing the use of processing resources to reduce build time and being predictable.
- It evaluates all available configuration files and recipe data (a.k.a `metadata`).

##  5. <a name='OpenEmbedded-Core'></a>OpenEmbedded-Core
- It provides the engine of the Poky build tool.
- It provides support to 7 different processor architecture:
  - ARM, ARM64
  - X86, x86-64
  - PowerPC, 
  - MIPS, MIPS64

##  6. <a name='Metadata'></a>Metadata
- It is composed of a mix of Python and Shell Script text files.
- It is a very flexible system, extending the OpenEmbedded-Core
- It includes two layers:
  - `meta-poky`: the default and supportyed distributions
  - `meta-yocto-bsp`: provides the Board Support Package (BSP)


##  7. <a name='TheallianceoftheOpenEmbeddedProjectandtheYoctoProject'></a>The alliance of the OpenEmbedded Project and the Yocto Project

1. OpenEmbedded was too messy
2. Poky is a cleaner and more polished and stable version.
   1. Poky started to develop highlighting technologies.
3. Yocto Project (YP) was announced by the linux foundation
   1. Best of Poky + Best of OpenEmbedded = OpenEmbedded-Core
