<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Understanding the BitBake Tool](#UnderstandingtheBitBakeTool)
* 2. [Exploring Metadata](#ExploringMetadata)
* 3. [Parsing Metadata](#ParsingMetadata)
* 4. [Dependencies](#Dependencies)
* 5. [Preferring and providing recipes](#Preferringandprovidingrecipes)
* 6. [Fetching the source code](#Fetchingthesourcecode)
	* 6.1. [Remote file downloads](#Remotefiledownloads)
	* 6.2. [Git repositories](#Gitrepositories)
	* 6.3. [Optimizing the source code download](#Optimizingthesourcecodedownload)
	* 6.4. [Disabling network access](#Disablingnetworkaccess)
* 7. [Understanding BitBake's tasks](#UnderstandingBitBakestasks)
	* 7.1. [Extending tasks](#Extendingtasks)
* 8. [Generating a root filesystem image](#Generatingarootfilesystemimage)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

Workflow for creating and emulating images:
- Explore the concept of metadata
- how recipes depend on each other
- how those recipes are used by Poky

- Besides the dependencies, there are other aspects that are important for every recipe.
  - For example, from Download source code to generate images related tasks:
    - storing source code in the directory used for the build
    - patching, configuring, compiling, installing and generating the packages.
    - determine how the packages fit into the generated images.

##  1. <a name='UnderstandingtheBitBakeTool'></a>Understanding the BitBake Tool

- Bitbaker is a task scheduler that parses Pyton and the shell script mixed code.
  - Based on the metadata, `Bitbaker` generates a large number of tasks that may have a complex dependency chain.
  - So, `Bitbake` is responsible for ensuring those dependencies are met (optimizing and parallelizing resources).

##  2. <a name='ExploringMetadata'></a>Exploring Metadata

The metadata used by Bitbake can be classified in:
1. Configuration (the `.conf` files): 
   - define the global content (i.e. affects all recipes and tasks that are executed).
   - configure how the recipes will work
2. Classes (the `.bbclass` files):
   - used to define the the system`s behavior
   - provide the base methods
   - They are written in a mix of Python and shell scripting code.
3. Recipes (the `.bb` and `.bbappend` files)
   - describe the tasks to be run
   - provide the information needed to allow `Bitbake` to generate the required task chain and its dependencies.
   - They are written in a mix of Python and shell scripting code.

##  3. <a name='ParsingMetadata'></a>Parsing Metadata

##  4. <a name='Dependencies'></a>Dependencies

##  5. <a name='Preferringandprovidingrecipes'></a>Preferring and providing recipes

##  6. <a name='Fetchingthesourcecode'></a>Fetching the source code

###  6.1. <a name='Remotefiledownloads'></a>Remote file downloads

###  6.2. <a name='Gitrepositories'></a>Git repositories

###  6.3. <a name='Optimizingthesourcecodedownload'></a>Optimizing the source code download

###  6.4. <a name='Disablingnetworkaccess'></a>Disabling network access

##  7. <a name='UnderstandingBitBakestasks'></a>Understanding BitBake's tasks

###  7.1. <a name='Extendingtasks'></a>Extending tasks

##  8. <a name='Generatingarootfilesystemimage'></a>Generating a root filesystem image