<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Deciphering the software development kit](#Decipheringthesoftwaredevelopmentkit)
* 2. [Working with the Poky SDK](#WorkingwiththePokySDK)
	* 2.1. [Using an image-based SDK](#Usinganimage-basedSDK)
	* 2.2. [Generic SDK meta-toolchain](#GenericSDKmeta-toolchain)
	* 2.3. [Using a SDK](#UsingaSDK)
	* 2.4. [Developing application on the target](#Developingapplicationonthetarget)
* 3. [Integrating with Elipse](#IntegratingwithElipse)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

- Poky is a build tool, i.e. generates images. 
- But Poky can be used for:
  - Application or kernel development.
  - Create external compilation tools.
  - Produce a root filesystem suitable for cross development.
  - Generate an image with the tools for use.


##  1. <a name='Decipheringthesoftwaredevelopmentkit'></a>Deciphering the software development kit
- An SDK is a set of tools (compilers, linkers, debuggers, external library headers and binaries) and files used to develop and debug.
  - All these tools are called `toolchain`
  - `cross-platform` tools: executed in one arquitecture then produces a binary for use in another arquitecture
  - `native-build` tools and result binary are executed on the same arquitecture.

- `internal toolchain`: When Poky executes tasks through the use of BitBake, it also needs a toolchain to be able to compile and link binaries for the target.

##  2. <a name='WorkingwiththePokySDK'></a>Working with the Poky SDK
- Poky generates an SDK package that can be installed on any computer, regardless of whether Poky is installed on it.
  - This `toolchain` is compatible with the `internal toolchain`

###  2.1. <a name='Usinganimage-basedSDK'></a>Using an image-based SDK
- In custom source code the dependencies are known.
  - So, it can be created an image which satisfy these dependencies.
- To create the imabe-based SDK, execute the following command:
  
``` shell
$ bitbake <nameOfImage> -c populate_sdk
```

- Where:
    - `<nameOfImage>` can be `core-image-base` or a custom image `rufo-image`
      - SO, the SDK is generated to match the arquitecture of the machine i.e. `MACHINE`.

- After the SDK is build a binary script can be found at `build/tmp/deploy/sdk/poky-glibc-x86_64-....-toolchain.sh`
  - To install this script? `right-click/Run as Executable`
  
  
###  2.2. <a name='GenericSDKmeta-toolchain'></a>Generic SDK meta-toolchain

###  2.3. <a name='UsingaSDK'></a>Using a SDK

###  2.4. <a name='Developingapplicationonthetarget'></a>Developing application on the target

##  3. <a name='IntegratingwithElipse'></a>Integrating with Elipse