<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Powering flexibility with layers](#Poweringflexibilitywithlayers)
* 2. [Detailing the layers source code](#Detailingthelayerssourcecode)
* 3. [Adding Meta Layers](#AddingMetaLayers)
* 4. [The Yocto Project Layer ecosystem](#TheYoctoProjectLayerecosystem)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

This chapter presents:
- External layers as a strong capability and how can be used.
- Differtent layer types, and how their directories are organized.
- How to include a new layer in our project.

##  1. <a name='Poweringflexibilitywithlayers'></a>Powering flexibility with layers

- `metadata layer`: they are metadata-sets which covers machine definition files, classes and recipes
  - Advantage:
    - Spit the metadata into logical units, enabling users to pick only the metadata-set needed for the project.
    - Improves the reuse of code and the ability to share work accross different teams.
- Examples of customizations can be:
  - enable/disable a feature 
  - change build flags to enable architecture-specific optimizations.
- So, when creating our **custom project environment**, instead of changing recipes and configuration files in the Poky Layer, we shall organize the metadata in different layers.

##  2. <a name='Detailingthelayerssourcecode'></a>Detailing the layers source code

- Usually a `layer` has the following structure:
- `meta-*` folder: By convention, a `layer` name should start with `meta-*`
  - `COPYING` file: the license
  - `README` file: a message which specifies any other dependencies and important information that the layer's user need to know.
  - `classes` folder (optional): classes (`.bbclass` files) specific to that layer.
  - `conf` folder: provide configuration (`.conf`) files
    - `layer.conf`: file with layer definition 
  - `recipe-*` folder: a cluster of recipes separated by category (folders). 
    - Each folder has a `recipes-*` name and contain `.bb` and/or `.bbappend` files
    - 
##  3. <a name='AddingMetaLayers'></a>Adding Meta Layers
- `layers` shall be manually cloned inside the project source directory to be used.
  - layers are located at `http://git.yoctoproject.org` and `http://layers.openebedded.org`
- Then, it absolute path shall be included in the `build/conf/bblayer.conf` file.
  - or run the following command: `bitbake-layers add-layer ../<path>`
- For example, to add the `meta-openembedded` layer in a project:
  1.  Clone the repo in the Poky source directory: `git clone git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded -b rocko` 
  2.  Add the following command to the `build/conf/bblayer.conf` file.

``` console
BBLAYERS += "\
  \home\user\poky\meta-openembedded/meta-oe \"
```

or

``` console
bitbake-layers add-layer ../meta-openembedded/meta-oe 
```
##  4. <a name='TheYoctoProjectLayerecosystem'></a>The Yocto Project Layer ecosystem

In `http://layers.openebedded.org` you can find many layers. 