<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Making a new layer](#Makinganewlayer)
* 2. [Adding metadata to the layer](#Addingmetadatatothelayer)
* 3. [Creating an image](#Creatinganimage)
* 4. [Adding a package recipe](#Addingapackagerecipe)
	* 4.1. [Automatically creating a base package recipe using recipetool](#Automaticallycreatingabasepackagerecipeusingrecipetool)
* 5. [Adding support to new machine definition](#Addingsupporttonewmachinedefinition)
	* 5.1. [Wrapping an image for your machine](#Wrappinganimageforyourmachine)
* 6. [Using a custom distribution](#Usingacustomdistribution)
* 7. [MACHINE_FEATURES versus DISTRO_FEATURES](#MACHINE_FEATURESversusDISTRO_FEATURES)
* 8. [Undertanding the variables scope](#Undertandingthevariablesscope)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='Makinganewlayer'></a>Making a new layer
- It shall begin with `meta-<NameOfLayer>`
- To do this automatically use the **new layer script**: `$ ./poky/scripts/yocto-layer create newlayer`
- The new layer `meta-<NameOfLayer>` folder tree is presented below:
  - `.conf` folder: which contains `layer.conf`
  - `COPYING.MIT`
  - `README` file
  - `recipes-example` folder:
  - `recipes-example-bbappend` folder:
- In case of `meta-<NameOfLayer>`requires other layers to work, the following variables shall be added:
  - `LAYERVERSION`:
    - A **single** number which represent the version of the layer.
      - It is used by `LAYERDEPENDS` in order to depend on a specific version of the layer.
      - it is suffixed with the layers name: `LAYERVERSION_<NameOfLayer> = "1"`
  - `LAYERDEPENDS`:
    - List of layers that the recipes depend upon, separated by spaces.
        - The sintaxis is `"dummyLayer:layerVersion"`
    - It is suffixed with the layers name: `LAYERDEPENDS_<NameOfLayer> = "dummyLayer:3" "dummyLayer2:1" ` 
- If a dependency cannot be satisfied, or the version number do not match, an error is raised.


##  2. <a name='Addingmetadatatothelayer'></a>Adding metadata to the layer
- The purpose of the layers is to **add extra metadata** to BitBake db.
  - most common features added are project related e.g. applications, librarie or service servers.
- So, we can include several types of layers of metadata files on a new layer i.e. recipes, images and `bbappend`files.
- The **new layer script** create two files:
  - `example_0.1.bb`: a recipe example
  - `example_0.1.bbappend`: a `bbappend` example used to modify the feature included in `example_0.1.bb`


##  3. <a name='Creatinganimage'></a>Creating an image
- Images files are set of packages grouped for a purpose and configured in a controlled way.
  - A new image can be created from:
    - An existing image and modifying it, i.e. reusing its code which ease maitenance.
    - For example if we want to create a new image based on `core-image-sato` but adding an application and removing an image feature:
      1. Create `recipes-<NameOfMyRecipe>/image/core-image-sato.bb`
      2. Add the following code:
        ``` console
        require recipes-sato/image/core-image-stato.bb
        IMAGE_FEATURES_remove = "somethingToRemove"
        CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "myapp"
        ```
    - Scratch.
##  4. <a name='Addingapackagerecipe'></a>Adding a package recipe

###  4.1. <a name='Automaticallycreatingabasepackagerecipeusingrecipetool'></a>Automatically creating a base package recipe using recipetool

##  5. <a name='Addingsupporttonewmachinedefinition'></a>Adding support to new machine definition

###  5.1. <a name='Wrappinganimageforyourmachine'></a>Wrapping an image for your machine

##  6. <a name='Usingacustomdistribution'></a>Using a custom distribution

##  7. <a name='MACHINE_FEATURESversusDISTRO_FEATURES'></a>MACHINE_FEATURES versus DISTRO_FEATURES

##  8. <a name='Undertandingthevariablesscope'></a>Undertanding the variables scope
- Bitbake metadata as thousand of variables.
  - Variables defined in configuration files are global to every recipe.
    - The parsing order of the main configuration files is:
    1. `build/conf/local.conf`
    2. `<layer>/conf/machines/<machine>.conf`
    3. `<layer>/conf/distro/<distro>.conf`
  - Variables defined within recipe files are local to the specific recipe.
